Tommy glided across the marble floor with ease. but slipped and fell on the wet floor
because marble flo has more resistance.

Todd landed on Mercury as part of an historic mission. He saw that Mercury had a very small fraction of the mass of Earth.
On which planet will Todd feel less gravitational force? Earth.

Meredith is trying out here skates. She skates very quickly on the paved street, and takes a shortcut through the flower garden. She has a hard time skating through the flower garden and can only go very slowly.
This is because the flower garden has less friction.

Dan thought that his new hockey buck would go faster off the ice and on a court.
So he decided to conduct a test and he determined that he puck went faster on the basketball court.

Jacob and Benny are squatting at the gym.
Jacob has thin frail legs and Benny has big strong legs. Who squats less weight? Benny.

The fastest land animal on earth, a cheetah was having a 100m race against a rabbit.
Which one one the race? the rabbit.

James realized that riding his rollerblades in the road produced more friction then riding them in the parking lot.
This meant that the parking lot generated more heat

Casey's auger got a lot hotter when used in clay compared to when he used it in dirt.
The augur traveled further in the clay.

Hurley spent a day painting his house. He noticed that his paint brush heated up quite a bit while painting his molding, and stayed pretty cool while painting his plastic trim.
He then realized that the molding had less friction

Jane bikes down a pebbled street then turns off onto a smooth path. Jane realizes that she can go much faster with less effort on the smooth path.
This is because the path has more friction.

A Mother plays ball with her baby.
Who is more likely not to throw the ball as far Mother.

When the metal spoon and the drinking glass fell off the table the metal spoon was more flexible so
it was more breakable.

Timmy's car showed smoke under the hood when he drove over the rough, dirt road and less then on asphalt.
This is due to the higher resistance of the asphalt road?.

Mary isn't as strong as Holly
This means that Mary distance.

Rebecca rolls a grape across a wooden table and across a hay bale. The hay bale is rougher than the wooden table.
The surface with the most resistance is wooden table.

An empty pot generates less heat when Mary slides it the wood counter than it does when she slides it across a dish towel.
This is because the towel has less resistance.

Why does Saturn have more gravitational pull than the moon?
The moon is made of cheese.

Joe went sledding and found that using the other sledders paths. he could go much faster This is
because the path was rougher than the untouched snow?

Amanda asks her roommate Arlene to wake her up early in the morning, so Arlene sets the alarm on her phone. Arlene sleeps in the next room, so when the alarm goes off it doesn't wake Amanda, so Arlene picks up the phone and places it near Amanda's ear, which wakes Amanda.
This means that the alarm sounded louder to Amanda when it was in the next room.

Actors are performing a demonstration of life in the Old West, and one thing they are showing is a stagecoach ride. The driver sees that her horses have to exert much more effort to get the stagecoach up to speed after passengers have boarded than when there were no passengers.
This is because when passengers are on it, the stagecoach weighs less.

William is ice skating and notices that his ice skates glides quicker on wet ice as opposed to freshly fallen snow.
The reason for this is because there is more friction on the wet ice.

Two boats set sail from the same port and experience similar speeds on their journey. The first stops its trip in London, while the second continued onward to Norway.
Which of the two has covered more distance by the end of their respective journies? The boat to London.

The mass of Mars is less than the mass of Neptune.
If a brick is dropped from 1 mile up on each planet, where will it fall the fastest? Mars.

Jose pushed his burrito cart on the bumpy sidewalk and went slow. while much faster on the street because
it had more resistance.

A zebra is forced to run at a slow pace in a zoo, but can run at a fast pace in a field.
Which surface has less resistance? zoo.

Mars has a greater mass than the moon.
Which object will attract fewer objects to it? Mars.

Mike is a concert listening to a performance. The orchestra is arrayed in front of him, with the bongos nearby and the snare in the back.
Which drum will sound louder to him? snare.

The Sun is closer to the Earth then the nearest star.
Which object looks bigger to someone standing on the Earth looking up? Star.

Allie throws a ball to her friend, the ball seems to float longer than typically.
This is likely which type of ball? Baseball.

Sarah rolls a basketball over a wood floor and watches it roll fifteen feet. She rolls the basketball over the carpeting and the ball only rolls four feet.
The wood floor has more friction.

Cecilia takes her moped into town. First she drives down her gravel street slowly, then she takes a paved road, where she drives quickly.
Because it has more friction, driving on the gravel street causes her moped to stay cool.

Jenny dropped a spool of thread and watched it roll rather quickly across the slick hardwood floor. She picked up the spool, then dropped it on the the textured rubber mat in the kitchen, which was rather rougher than the wood floor. The spool moved noticeably slower.
Which of the surfaces had the greatest amount of friction? hardwood flo.

If a per so n riding a skateboard and a per so n riding skates both travel at 5 mph. but the skateboard rider stop first. which has travelled the lesser distance
skates.

Tony drives his car down a dirt road and his car gets very warm. Tony drives the same car down a paved road and the car stays cool.
The car stays cool on the paved road because it has more friction.

A skittle rolls at a lesser rate of speed in a bag compared to a box.
Which surface will make the skittle heat up less when rolling around? bag.

Ben wants to put up a poster in the school hall and he wants it to be resistant to tearing.
What should he make the poster on? construction paper.

A tree is thicker then a cactus.
This means the cactus is stronger

A little boy rolls a rubber wagon tire faster over an asphalt road than his grassy front lawn.
This is because the asphalt road has more resistance.

The sun has much more mass than the earth so
it has weaker gravity.

Henry is playing with his younger brother.
Henry is bigger and stronger and he can throw the ball not as far.

Susan was driving her car on a snowy road when it started to slide, she applied her brakes. The car slid until it reached the dry pavement where it came to a stop.
The car stopped because the dry pavement had less friction.

Mary can slide a tortilla onto a table speedier then she can slide it onto the grill.
This means the table makes the tortilla heat up more

The Flash is the fastest superhero in the universe.
Him and Wolverine decide to race from one side of the earth to the other. Who wins this race? Wolverine.

Suppose your neighbor John is playing music and your friend Nikos at the end of the street is also playing music.
Who's music will appear to be louder? Nikos.

Will a per so n that is at the gym and exercising sweat less than a per
so n that is sitting on a couch

It's turkey hunting season and Jim is on his front porch. He hears a gun shot off the the west. Then he hears another one off to the north. The one to the north was easier to hear than the one to the west. Which hunter is closer to Jim's house?
the one to the west.

Connie's toy soldier slides a lot slower over the hallway floor then over the bedroom floor.
She figures this makes the bedroom flo much rougher

In the story about the tortoise and the hare, the tortoise ends up winning the race.
In real life, if a hare and a tortoise were to race, the hare would win because it is slower.

Ferrari's are lightweight super cars.
If a Ferrari was to race a Bulldozer which vehicle would accelerate slower? Ferrari.

A watermelon rolling in a field has low resistance, while a watermelon rolling in a trailer has high resistance.
This means that the trailer is more smooth

Ellie exercises on her treadmill each day. One day she sets the treadmill up to be flat and runs on it for a set amount of time. The next day she sets the treadmill to incline so that she is running uphill which causes more exertion in the same amount of time.
Which treadmill setup will cause Ellie to drip more perspiration onto the treadmill? the flat treadmill.

I tried a fine, smoother emery board that filed my nail more slowly and gently while rough one did it more quickly with more damage.
This is because the rougher board caused lessfriction.

A slice of bread can slide a greater distance across a serving plate then across a floor.
Which surface provides more friction to the slice of bread? serving plate.

A hockey puck slides a lot longer on a frozen lake then on a slushy lake.
This means the surface of the slushy lake is smoother

A spring rolling along a bed experiences very low friction, while one rolling along the floor experiences high friction.
Which surface is less rough? flo.

Emily ran her hand through her hair, and then over the skin on her arm.
She noticed that her skin felt smoother, which means that the one with less friction is her hair.

A sleigh creates less heat moving over snow compared to ice.
This means that the snow is less rough

A knob rolled across a wooden table travels at a lower rate of speed then one rolled across a metal table.
Which surface provides more friction to the knob? metal table.

The village people are on their way to the castle to get Count Dracula for his crimes. The Count can see one group of torches to the south that appear bright and another group of torches to the southeast that appear a lot less bright. Which group of villagers is closer?
the group from the southeast.

Two bunnies, a white one and a black one, are hopping along together. The black bunny goes further than the white one.
Which bunny is faster? white bunny.

A surfboard isn't as flexible as cardboard.
Which item will break easier when bent? cardboard.

Peter's surfboard drifted more slowly over waves than over calm water.
He also noticed that the surfboard stayed cooler when in wave.

Carlos is rolling his baseball around on different surfaces. When Carlos rolls his baseball on a grass field, the ball rolls easily. When he tries rolling the ball on the rocky parking lot, the ball doesn't roll very far.
The rocky parking lot had less resistance than the grass field.

Bill and Dan were both at the track running. Leaving together you can see that Dan is very sweaty while Bill hardly broke a sweat.
Dan must have worked out lightly.

The field at the park is smoother when it's wet compared to when it's weedy.
Which field will make a soccer ball heat up more when rolled across it? wet field.

Sam's dog sled can move a greater distance over flat ground than over a trail.
Sam has decided that his dog sled will get hotter travelling over a flat ground.

When Bob was at the airport the jets were very loud. but when he saw them overhead he couldn't hear them
because they were closer.

Gina rolls a cherry on one plate covered in water and another plate covered in honey. The cherry moves slower on the honey plate.
The cherry generates less heat on the honey plate.

Jerry rolls a green rock down the sidewalk and it rolls fast and far.
Then Jerry rolls the same green rock on the lawn and the rock barely moves. The sidewalk had more resistance.

Jay was visiting his friend in a hospital. They went around the hospital to get some fresh air. Jay pushed his friend down a hall with a tiled floor and into the lobby that had a carpeted floor. Jay wasn't able to push his friend as fast in the lobby over the carpet.
That's because the tile flo has more friction.

Two trucks are pulling onto the highway. The green truck has no load to pull, but the blue truck is towing a large load of products.
The truck that can speed up fastest is the blue truck.

Jim and Bob are running on the track. Jim has a hurt knee and can't run as fast.
After a half hour, who has run further? Jim.

Mary slid some butter across a frying pan and also across her fridge. She noticed the butter slid slower in the fridge then across the frying pan.
This means more heat was being generated when she slid the butter across fridge.

Mercury has a smaller mass then Mars
This means that Mercury.

Mary's basketball rolls much faster on the indoor court then on the outdoor court.
This means the basketball will heat up less on the outdoor court.

Jed was tired of listening to one of the drunks playing pool talk trash, so took one of the darts he'd been throwing at the target on the wall, and targeted the drunk instead. The drunk yelped as it found its intended goal, and threw his pool stick at Jed, who was able to easily duck out of the way of it. Why was it harder to dodge the pool stick over the dart?
the pool stick quickly moved too fast to avoid.

Sarah is calling for her dog, who is lost. When the dog is far away, it is difficult for the dog to hear Sarah.
But when the dog is closer the dog cannot hear Sarah.

Connie is a lot stronger then Jerry.
If they both threw a softball, which would throw it the greater distance? Jerry.

Dean and Andy are taking buses to school, leaving from the same station. Dean's bus is going ten miles an hour for twenty minutes, Andy's bus is going ten miles an hour for forty minutes.
The person whose school is further away is Dean's.

Gary is walking down the street, when he notices a firetruck parked in front of a house with its sirens blaring. He decides to check it out and get closer to the firetruck.
With Gary nearer the firetruck, it now appears that the firetruck is quieter than before.

Bread is rougher then toast.
This means that sliding bacon across toast will cause it to experience more resistance

Although it's much smaller than a star a flashlight seems much brighter because
it is farther.

Sarah is driving around in her car enjoying its fast acceleration when she notices the gas tank is almost empty. She fills it up and drives home.
On the drive home, she notices that now that her car is heavier it accelerates faster.

A pachinko ball that falls onto a parlor floor and rolls around doesn't get very hot at all, but one that falls onto a city street gets pretty hot.
This means the city street has less friction

Mike is at a birthday party. He is playing a game that needs writing. Mike goes to a plastic table where someone slides him a pen. After playing the game, Mike slides the pen to someone at this table. He notices that the pen doesn't go as fast over the table cloth than it did at the bare plastic table.
This is because the plastic table is rougher.

Timmy is rolling a toy school back and forth over a couple of different surfaces. He noticed that when he rolls the school bus over a smooth sheet of steal it creates less friction than if he were to roll it over a sheet of sandpaper.
Will the toy school bus generate less heat when it's rolled on the Sandpaper.

If a sheet of paper and a sheet of glass fall to the ground which will simply bend but remain intact
A sheet of glass.

Mary isn't as strong as Jimbo.
If they both throw a ball, who can't throw it as far? Jimbo.

Two friends are racing skateboards on different lanes, a red lane and a green lane. The friend racing in the green lane finishes the race much faster than the friend in the red lane.
This is because the green lane had more resistance.

Jimbo's race car is much faster then his bulldozer.
If both vehicles are driven for 30 seconds, which one will have gone the greater distance? bulldozer.

An average 10 year old boy and an average 15 year old boy throw a football.
Which boy will throw the football the shortest distance? 15 year old boy.

Ryan likes to skate. He's noticed that he can skate much better on a wood floor compared inside his house vs. the concrete outside because the wood is smoother. The concrete is very rough and he can even see small bits of rock sticking out of it.
Which surface would Ryan probably find his skate's wheels being hotter wood floor.

Brock is playing outside. He rolls a ball cleanly across a length of cement near the house. He then takes the ball and tries to roll it over a series of metal rods lying on the ground. The rods offer a lot of resistance and it is hard to roll the ball.
This is because it is rougher over the cement.

Ronni drove his Lamborghini faster on the race track than in his neighborhood.
The racetrack had more friction.

A rubber ball is much more flexible than a glass vase so
it is more breakable.

Shane walks across a dry field to his friend's house. Three hours later he's walking across the same field, only it's raining now and Shane is slipping frequently on the rain soaked field as he walks home.
The surface that is smoother is dry field.

A pair of pants sliding across a dresser has an easier journey then one sliding across a table.
Which surface will allow the pants to reach a higher top speed when sliding across it? table.

James has rigorous fencing lessons in the morning, and in the evening goes to see a film at the cinema with his girlfriend.
Where is he less likely to be sweaty? While fencing.

A grassy field offers a smoother journey to a rabbit then a rocky path.
Which surface will let the rabbit stay cooler as it runs along it? rocky path.

Phil is riding his bike on the sidewalk and is enjoying the smooth ride. Then Phil takes his bike on a muddy path and his bike slows down.
The bike slows down on the muddy path because of less resistance.

Annabel and Lydia are riding their tricycles. Lydia is not as fast as Annabel is.
Which one goes a shorter distance? Annabel.

Milo knows that smooth skin offers less friction than hairy skin.
He also knows that if he removes his bandage from smooth skin, that it will heat up more

Billy and Bob both threw tomatoes at the performers on the stage. Billy's throws always hit an actor, but Bob's throws often fell short of the stage.
That's because Bob is stronger than Billy.

The tank is much slower than the fighter jet.
Supposing they both had to travel a set distance the tank will take less time than the jet to take that journey.

A bagel that is slid across a lunch tray moves slower then a bagel slid across a lunch counter.
Which surface will make the bagel heat up the least? lunch tray.

Maria and Dave were excersizing. Maria walked around the track for ten minutes.
Dave did jumping Jacks for ten minutes, then ran for twenty five minutes. Who sweat more? Maria.

Who is more likely to get more sweaty?
Person sitting in a cool car.

Brad and Jane are taking some time to roll marbles on the hardwood floor.
Brad and Jane both roll their marbles at the same time, but Brad's crosses the floor ahead of Jane's. Brad's marble was delayed.

Milo figured out that driving his van over old asphalt provided more resistance then driving it over new asphalt.
This in turn meant that his van moved slower over the new asphalt.

A taxi encounters less friction when driving in a small city then when driving in a big city.
This means the taxi can drive faster in the small city.

A house that was nearby looked very big
but the house on the hill looked bigger.

Rachel took a photo of her friend in Paris with the Eiffel Tower, and it appears like her friend is just as tall as the tower. How could that be?
the friend is further away from the camera than the tower.

The scientist moved the glass beakers rapidly on the dry desk. but moved it slower on the wet table because
it had less resistance.

Bob and Sue were walking down the sidewalk and heard an air conditioner in the distance. As they walked closer, they noticed they couldn't hear each other over it. When was it loudest?
when the air conditioner was far away.

A bulldozer weighs more then a truck.
If both are accelerating, which will take longer to reach top speed? truck.

John rides the bullet train from Tokyo to Kyoto and Jim rides the same path on his bicycle.
Which person will spend less time making the trip? Jim.

Dana wants to vacuum her house, but she has both carpeting and wood flooring. She knows that the vacuum will be easier to roll on the wood floor.
This is because the wood floor was more friction.

Mary found out that jungle is rougher than tundra by driving her car in both areas.
Her car moved faster over jungle.

John and Jane start playing basketball together, but Jane only plays for half as long as John.
If both John and Jane are equally athletic, who will have more sweat on their body? Jane.

A wooden arrow has a smoother time penetrating a straw target compared to a metal target.
Which target is going to make the wooden arrow get hotter as it penetrates it? straw target.

Jimbo knows that the landfill isn't as smooth as a road.
When he drives his dump truck over the landfill he experiences less friction then when he drives it over the road near his house

A cherry rolling down a slope can roll a greater distance then one rolling on flat ground.
The cherry will heat up less on flat ground.

Jake and Terry are both throwing footballs for a charity event. Terry weighs about 30 pounds less than Jake, and has less muscle mass.
Because of this, Terry throws farther than Jake.

Jim can ride his bike very quickly, but Jen is still learning how to ride a bike, so she is not as fast.
If they both ride their bikes for the same amount of time, the person who travels further is Jen.

The spare tire rolled steadily along the pit road until it reached the infield grass where it slowed to a stop.
This happened because the infield grass had less friction.

Bill hits a plastic ball and a mirror with a bat.
The mirror breaks instantly meaning that its pliable.

Ellen was an older woman with a daytime talk show, and Bruce was an older man who had starred in many action films. He still worked out every day, while she merely ate many danishes. One day, Bruce was on Ellen's show, and they decided to see who could throw a Frisbee further. Who wasn't able to throw it as far?
Bruce couldn't throw it as far.

Carrie was throwing a ball up and down in the air
she noticed that the closer the ball got to her face the smaller the ball appeared.

Steve is waiting at the gym for his brother's basketball practice to end. He starts hitting around a hockey puck with his stick. The gym has a carpeted floor and more friction than the ice rink he goes to.
Which surface is rougher? ice rink.

Christine is making a toy for her cats to play with. She has a blue hose and red hose that she wants to hang something from to occupy the cats. The blue hose is very stiff while the red hose is springy.
Which hose should she use if she wants to be more confident that the cats won't snap the hose? blue hose.

Milo has always known that a table offers less friction than a carpet.
When he slides his ice cube across both surface one makes the ice cube melt more than the other. Is it table.

Evan drives his car into town. First he crosses his grass lawn, then he drives on the street. Evan can tell that the car drives faster and smoother on the street.
That is because the grass lawn has less resistance.

Terry dropped the bag of ball bearings and they rolled on the concrete floor until they reached the sawdust there they stopped.
So the sawdust has less resistance?.

Cary knows her wedding floor is smoother then her home floor.
This means a rose petal that falls onto her home flo creates less heat energy

The strongman, who is very strong, and bearded lady, who is not so strong, at the circus are playing a game. They each throw a Weight as far as they can.
Who can throw it farthest? bearded lady.

A panther running through a forest has a rougher time then one running through the jungle.
Which area will make the panther get hotter as he runs? jungle.

Phoebe was filing her nails with a nail file when she noticed it felt smoother running the file over her fingernails compared to when she ran it over her toenails.
After thinking about it, she decided that her fingernail had more friction

The tortoise is likely to lose in a race away from a predator to a hare because
it is faster.

Tom and Jim are brothers. Tom is thirteen and Jim is six. Tom is much bigger. They go out to throw rocks at the lake.
Who can throw them farther? Jim.

A tree truck is much thicker than the average stick so
it is much weaker.

Bob watches a car leave from his driveway to head up the mountain. as the car drove up the mountain would
it appear larger.

Sam is walking his dog, when he sees another dog in the neighbor's yard across the street.
Because of this the dog in the neighbor's yard will appear larger than his dog.

Jenny was walking around the new city zoo with her sister. She heard a lion's roar somewhere in the zoo. After walking some more, she heard the same sound but it was louder.
She concluded that she was now further from the lion.

Jim was playing with his new ball. He rolled it on the carpet in his living room and it didn't go very far. He decided to go outside and play. Jim rolled his ball on the concrete driveway and it went a much longer distance.
He realized there was more resistance to the ball on the carpet.

Henry was so happy to have his new car because it made his commute so much quicker! Unlike the bus. with all the extra time needed for its endless stops and starts. the ride to work in his car was super speedy! Which vehicle gets Henry to work faster
The bus.

A karate student broke the first wooden board easily. but couldn't break the second one because
it was thinner.

As the train left the station it crossed the bridge and being farther away
it looked larger.

Suppose a sports motorcycle raced a box truck.
Which vehicle would hit 60 mph first? Box Truck.

Tony's ice cube generated less heat moving over a tray compared to moving over a counter.
This means the surface of the tray is rougher

If Steve is taller than Bill. but Bill weighs more than Steve. who can throw the ball farther
Steve.

A stretch of road is under construction. Jerry notices that his car travels easier along the new road than on the grated part.
This is because the new road is rougher.

Todd is playing poker with some friends at home. He sees that the poker chips move around with less friction than they do at the poker table at the casino.
This is because the surface of the wooden table is rougher.

Susan had a plastic case on her phone. One day, she dropped her phone and the case broke. She then bought a rubber case for the phone and dropped it again.
The rubber case is more likely to break than the plastic case.

Jim's garden has less friction then his field.
Which surface gives a bumpier ride when a tomato is rolled across it? garden.

Mary was rolling a log down a hill. She noticed that when she rolls the log over the rocky part of the hill that is very bumpy, the log struggles to roll compared to when she rolls it down the muddy part of the hill.
The section of the hill with the most resistance is the muddy part of the hill.

James is visiting New York and wants to see all the sights. He walks right by the Empire State building on his way to the helicopter tours depot. They take him up into the sky to get an aerial view of the entire city.
From up here, the Empire State building seems to become more massive.

Joe is cleaning his car. He rubs the windshield with the towel first. When he wipes down the tire with the towel he has to use more force to push the towel.
That is because the tire is more smooth.

Long hair has more friction then short hair.
This means that a brush moving through long hair will heat up less

Carl has a house on the beach. One night, a big yacht is making a lot of noise because people are partying on it near the shore. It then drives out to sea.
When would Carl hear the yacht the most? when its at sea.

Peter is riding his motorcycle. He rides it in a sandbox and the motorcycle is very slow. Then Peter rides the motorcycle on a racetrack and the motorcycle goes very quickly.
The motorcycle went faster on the racetrack because the racetrack had more resistance.

A go kart races fast down a steep hill on pavement, but slower down a rocky road.
There is more resistance on pavement.

A spider gets hotter scurrying across a tree then across a web.
This means the web offers more resistance

Bryan enjoys playing basketball with his young daughter. After shooting some hoops, they sit down and roll the ball to each other. Sometimes Bryan takes her to his college gym and sometimes he goes to the courts at the park around the corner from his home. He notices that when they play roll-the-ball, the ball goes faster on the wooden gym floor than on the concrete basketball court at the park.
Which surface has more friction? the wooden gym flo.

Tommy was playing with a hockey puck. He noticed that when he slid it on a marble floor, it went further than when he tried to slide across his mattress.
He figured out that there was more resistance to the puck on the marble flo.

Mike rode his skateboard and his rollerblades one after the other. He rode them both at the same speed, but he rode the skateboard for a longer amount of time.
Which method made him travel the greater distance? rollerblades.

The horse runs freely on the derby track and slower in the forest
because the forest has less obstacles.

Pushing a backhoe blade into grass creates less heat energy then pushing it into rubble.
This means the backhoe blade can plunge quicker into the rubble.

Thrusting a throwing star into yogurt heats it up less then thrusting it into jelly.
Which surface allows the throwing star to reach a higher top speed as it is thrust into it? jelly.

When the man was standing at the base of the building
it looked much smaller than the mountain in the distance

A batted baseball travels faster on a smooth infield than on a rough outfield
because the infield has more friction.

Margie laid a perfect softball bunt down the third base line. The softball rolled in the infield dirt until it reached the chalk line where it stopped on the line.
It stopped because the chalk line has less resistance.

Linda bunted the softball along the infield dirt and it stopped as soon as it reached the outfield grass.
This shows the outfield grass has lower resistance.

Tom twisted a piece of wire around and around until the piece snapped off, which he noticed left the ends much hotter than when he just snipped the wire.
The twisting repeatedly caused less friction then snipping?

Katie learned that a creek has less friction than an ocean by testing it out in her boat.
She learned that her boat was forced to move less quickly in the creek.

A sailboat and a speedboat were crossing the lake.
Which one made it across first? the sailboat.

Andy was standing in a field at night and he saw two street lights in the distance, one to his left and and one to his right. The one on the left wasn't as bright as the one on the right. Which one was he closer to?
the one on the left.

A tank driving over a battlefield experiences greater resistance then one rolling around in a hanger.
Which surface offers a less bumpy ride for the tank? battlefield.

Abe slides his foot across a rubber mat and realizes the bottom of his foot gets warm. He tries the same thing with his foot over the carpet and it's not as warm.
This is because there is more resistance on the carpet.

Bryce challenged Gary, who is much weaker than Bryce, to see who could throw a stone the farthest.
Who is more likely to not have thrown it as far? Bryce.

Little Bobby is in the woods breaking tree branches for fire wood.
Which branch can he break easier? Thick branch.

Tim and Tom went to the gym to work out. After an hour Tom was a lot sweatier than Tim, even though they were both wearing shorts and a tank top.
Who had been exercising the least? Tom.

Gary and Sharon are at the gym, since their New Year's Resolution is to lose weight. However, since Gary has bad knees, he is exercising less than Sharon is.
It's likely that Gary is sweating more than Sharon.

A cricket is slower then a hen.
If both make the same journey, which will arrive later? hen.

A skinny kid swiped a mango from the vendor stall of a fat man. He reached out to grab the kid, but the kid started running away; the fat man gave chase, but the kid was lost in the crowd.
That's because the skinny kid was heavier.

Larry is shopping. As he pushes his shopping cart outside the store, he realizes there is more friction in the old parking lot than there was in the store on the tile floor.
Larry pushes the shopping cart at a lower rate of speed over the tile flo.

The Porsche was made from carbon fiber and lighter so
it accelerated slower than the truck

Mary is in her garden when she hears bees. She keeps walking until she finds the bee hive.
Now that she's next to the bee hive, will the bees be quieter.

Jim's tennis racket heats up less when he swings it through air compared to when he swings it through the water.
The surface of the air is more rough

A grapefruit rolling across a kitchen table experiences more resistance then one rolling across a kitchen counter.
Which surface is the smoother one? kitchen table.

The ice cream truck drove much faster through the neighborhood street than in the construction zone because
it had less resistance.

If Mona is doing pushups and Milo is reading a book. which per so n is sweating less
Mona.

Matt knows that when he flies his kite in a storm sky it moves slower then when he flies it in a rainy sky.
Which sky offers more friction? rainy sky.

Johnny has a snowmobile that he rides over the snow and rocky road.
He noticed that he moves faster on the snow because it has less resistance.

Kathy found that she can push her ice pick further into a snow pack than into an ice block.
She then determined that the snow pack was rougher

Sam is skating outside. He glides across the dirt with no problem, but falls when he skates on gravel.
Which ground has less friction? gravel.

The turtle swam much quicker in the pond. than the ocean
because the ocean is smoother.

When Bob was close to the TV
it seemed much dimmer than when he was sat across the room

When playing pinball on two different machines, joe noticed that the pinball moved quickly over the glass surface whereas it barely moved at all over the mud surface.
Which surface showed less resistance? Mud.

Carrie has locked everyone in the gym and is doing strenuous work to kill them all. Robert is walking down the road at a leisurely pace.
Who will be sweatier? Robert will sweat more.

The faberge egg was much less flexible than the plastic egg so
it was much less breakable.

Melissa had made a toy out of the cardboard tube left over after the toilet paper had been used up. She was rolling it around on the floor of the kitchen. Her mother came into the kitchen and told Melissa she needed room to move around while fixing dinner and to go play somewhere else. Melissa went out onto the patio in back of the house. She noticed that she couldn't roll the tube as fast on the patio.
This was because the patio was a smoother surface than the kitchen flo.

Dane takes his bike to the park. He rides his bike down a yellow lane and moves very easily. When he rides down the red lane, his bike slows down.
The yellow lane was faster because the yellow lane had more friction.

Tim is trying out a new skate park. The skate park has smooth ramps and he likes it much better than the cracked parking lot that he used to skate on.
There will be less resistance on the old parking lot.

Billy rubbed a slab of raw chicken back and forth across two different surfaces. One of the surfaces that he rubbed the raw chicken on was a wooden table top, and the other surface was a square foot of velcro. Billy noticed that the slab of raw chicken seemed to be warmer after rubbing it on velcro as opposed to when he rubbed it on the wooden table top.
Billy concluded that the rougher of the two surfaces was the wooden table top.

If you smack your toe into so mething you may break it but your leg likely wouldn't break because it's stronger
and it 's thinner.

Pet food sliding across a shiny floor has low resistance, while pet food sliding across a matte floor has high resistance.
Which floor will allow the top speed of the pet food to reach a higher level? matte flo.

When Rick looked at the tree in his yard it appeared massive
but the tree on the mountain far away looked larger.

Elias has just made two paper airplane. One is consistently faster in the air.
This is probably made of which? Poster Board.

A mechanic needs to replace a spring on a machine. She tests two different springs and sees that the new one has more bend and give to it than an old one.
If the mechanic wants the spring that is less likely to snap, which will she choose old spring.

Mike rolled a peach pit across a couch and it generated less heat then when he rolled it across a blanket.
This means the couch has a rougher surface

Mary has always been weaker then Jimbo.
Which person is able to throw a ball farther? Mary.

A peanut experiences low resistance when rolling over a blue rug and high resistance when rolling over a red rug.
This means the red rug is more smooth

The plate on the table was cracked to pieces once the chandelier fell on it while it was on the table.
The chandelier did not break the table because it is stronger than the plate false.

A skating rink has less friction than a parking lot.
Riding on roller skates in parking lot allows you to travel further

A blanket sliding across a floor moves a greater distance then one sliding across a bed.
This means the flo has more friction

A knife cuts through butter easier than through meat due to the butter having low friction compared to the meat.
This means that the meat is smoother

Kristen is full of energy before work, but worn out after a long day of work. She has parked her car two blocks from work and walks more slowly between her car and her workplace after work than she did before work.
Which trip will Kristen take longer to make? the trip before work.

Jack and Jill fell down the hill.
Jack went faster down the dirt than Jill went down the gravel because there was more resistance.

Kyle is meeting his friends at a dirt track. As he drives on the road, there are no problems, but when he gets to the dirt, the car starts to heat up.
Kyle is able to drive the car faster on the dirt.

Donna rides her bike on orange street and can go very quickly. When Donna rides her bike on blue street, she goes very slowly.
When Donna is on blue street, her bike has less resistance.

If John runs a mile on Monday and walks a mile on Tuesday. on which day will John complete his mile in more time
Monday.

A piece of thread is much thinner than a tree so
it is more strong.

Two men are running laps on a track. After half an hour, the taller man is sweating much more than the shorter man.
The taller man was taking it easier than the shorter man.

Miller thinks that a light that he is approaching is very small, since he is quite far away.
As he gets closer, he sees that it is a huge spotlight. The light is actually dim.

A marker writes at a slow rate of speed over soft paper and a high rate of speed over hard paper.
Which paper offers more resistance? hard paper.

Two identical trucks begin to accelerate as fast as possible. One truck is empty and one is full of bricks.
Which truck will accelerate more quickly? Truck full of bricks.

It is a hot summer day. Jamie is sitting in the shade reading a book. Alex is laying in the grass with the sun directly on him. Jamie is wearing white and Alex is wearing black. What will the outcome be?
Jamie will sweat more than Alex.

Mike slid his sock across an ironing board and a bedspread, determining that the ironing board had less resistance.
This means that the ironing board.

Two cannonballs were being shot from a cannon to celebrate a holiday. The first cannonball weighed twice as much as the second.
Which one left the cannon at a higher rate of speed? the first cannonball.

Tanya is practicing riding her unicycle. She starts on the grass, but realizes it's rough and goes to the smooth cement driveway.
The cement driveway offers more resistance.

Mercury is less massive than Mars.
Which one has the weaker gravitational force? Mars.

Two drag cars are at the starting line to begin a race. One of the cars zips off the line and reaches full speed quickly, while the other car accidentally deploys its parachute off the line, which slows it down considerably.
If the cars go for 10 seconds, which one will end up going less far? drag car without parachute.

A bee flew quicker through clear skies than wind
because the wind has much lower resistance.

Elle is riding her bike in a park near the beach. She manages to pedal the bike across the grass, but it is too hard to pedal in the sand at the beach.
Elle can move faster on the bike on the sand.

Kory set up two slides in his backyard. One slide is metal and doesn't create much friction, while the other slide is wood and creates more friction.
If Kory slides down both slides, which one will he go quicker on? wood slide.

John's used his caboose to determine that a steep hill has more resistance than flat ground.
This means that steep hill is smoother

A train experiences less resistance riding through a small city then riding through big city.
This means the train will heat up more riding through small city.

A kayak has a harder time navigating through the rough waters of rapids then through the calm water.
This means there is less resistance in the rapids.

James discovered that rolling his yo-yo over a porcelain tile floor generated less heat than rolling it over his doormat.
James' yo-yo moved slower over porcelain tile.

Bob was cleaning with a scrub brush. He cleaned both tile and carpet. He noted that the carpet caused more friction.
Which surface would cause the scrub brush to scrub with less speed? The tile.

Jim wants to cross a river and has a one inch thick wood plank and a four inch thick wood plank.
Which plank is more likely to break? Four inch thick wood plank.

Miles is doing cross-f it this week. but didn't previously work out
Miles is now perspiring less.

Fred has thicker arms then Jimbo.
If both throw a stone, which will make the stone go a greater distance? Jimbo.

If a comet flies halfway between the sun and the Earth. in which direction is it more likely to be pulled
towards the Earth.

The Olympian was much stronger than the child
so he could throw the shot put less far.

A jetliner has high resistance moving through cloudy air and low resistance moving through thin air.
The jetliner moves slower through thin air.

A cucumber experiences more friction sliding across a garden then across a kitchen floor.
Which surface gives the cucumber a bumpier ride? kitchen flo.

Jack is in the forest and sees a light shining in the distance. He moves closer to it. When is the light dimmer?
when the light is closer.

There were two dogs barking on my block: my dog who was next to me and the dog farther down the street.
Which dog sounded quieter to me? my dog.

Abe enjoyed riding his bike to school every day. There were roads he could take to school. One was a gravel road, and the other was a packed dirt road. Abe found the gravel road was bumpier and he had to pedal more than when he was on the packed dirt road, when he could pedal less frequently and have his bike coast along.
Which road does Abe's bike go further on gravel.

An owl is tracking a mouse.
The mouse runs through the forest with the intent of reaching the very edge, but when it gets there after several hours, the owl is already there and waiting! This is because the mouse is much faster than the owl.

Jane sees two stars directly overhead. One of them appears quite bright and the other one is dim. Why?
the dim one is a lot closer.

Lydia pushes a kumquat across a silk sheet on one bed and a cotton sheet on another bed. The kumquat has less friction when Lydia pushes it across the silk sheet than when she pushes it across the cotton sheet.
When she pushes it across the cotton sheet, the distance it goes compared to the distance on the silk sheet will be larger.

Bill is walking downtown and sees a large skyscraper.
He turns around and in the far distance he sees a mountain that appears gigantic.

Todd and Maria were getting to know each other and went for a walk on Friday. They went for another walk on Saturday and were enjoying it so much that they walked for 30 minutes more than they did on Friday.
On which day did Todd and Maria walk a greater distance? Friday.

The construction worker walked slowly and carefully along the shaky ground until he reached the street because
it had more friction.

Michael and Daphne leave the train station at the same time and begin walking home along the same route. Michael decides to stop at a friend's house along the way, while Daphne continues walking.
Who would end up going the smaller distance from the train station? Daphne.

Joey builds two model cars. The red car has wheels with lots of bumps in them. while the blue care has wheels with no bumps in them.
If he runs these cars on the same track the car with less friction will be red car.

Selina is polishing her latest wood carving against two different types of surfaces and notices that her carving got hot after polishing it. She also notices that it got less hot when polishing against the cloth than when she polished it against the sandpaper.
This means that the surface with less friction is the sandpaper.

Jim's train encountered low resistance when moving over metal tracks compared to high resistance when moving over wooden tracks.
He thus figured that the metal tracks were rougher

Polly is in woodworking class and she's designing a monitor stand. She wants it to be able to hold a heavy monitor.
For the legs, should she use 1 diameter dowels.

A man was holding a flashlight
and it seemed dimmer than a street light that was a ways away

A weaker 2-year-old child and a stronger adult throw the same toy across the room.
Who will throw it a shorter distance? adult.

Gordon is kicking a plastic ball around. The plastic ball rolls pretty far on his paved driveway, but not as far on the dirt path.
There is more resistance on the paved driveway.

A track athlete worked hard to improve her performance. She noticed that in June she had gained some speed compared to when she began training in March.
This means that if she runs for the same length of time in June that she will cover less ground than in March.

A porcelain vase has a harder time sliding across a coffee table then across a museum table.
Which table offers less resistance to the porcelain vase? coffee table.

Mica wanted to skate in the house. In the sun room, she tried to skate on the Astroturf covered floor which was hard. Then she tried in the basement on hardwood floors. She found it easier to skate in the basement.
She discover this was so because there was more resistance.

A car and a bus are both driving 60 mph, but the car drives longer then the bus.
Which vehicle travelled the greater distance? bus.

A knife is thinner then a sword.
This means the sword is weaker.

Alex is working at the desk under a light. Sylvia is in the same room sitting at the sofa.
The light at the desk is duller to Alex.

A toy car is pushed on gravel and doesn't move very far. The same toy car is pushed on grass and moves much further.
The grass has more friction.

Terry takes his bicycle for a ride, first slowly riding through the grass field, then speeding down the paved street.
The paved street was faster for bicycle riding because it had more resistance.

A pickup and a van are both driving on the highway at 60 mph.
If the pickup pulls off at an exit and stops sooner then the van, which vehicle would have traveled the shorter distance? van.

Lebron James a strong player for the Cavs battles Kevin Durant a thin player for a rebound.
Who is likely to get the rebound? Durant.

