Mike was snowboarding on the snow and hit a piece of ice.
He went much faster on the ice because ice is smoother.

John and Rita are going for a run. Rita gets tired and takes a break on the park bench.
After twenty minutes in the park, who has run farther? John.

The propeller on Kate's boat moved slower in the ocean compared to the river.
This means the propeller heated up less in the river.

A car gets very hot as it drives up a muddy hill, but stays cool as it drives up a grass hill.
The car warms on on the muddy hill because the muddy hill has more friction.

Juan is injured in a car accident, which necessitates a hospital stay where he is unable to maintain the strength in his arm. Juan notices that his throwing arm feels extremely frail compared to the level of strength it had when he was healthy.
If Juan decides to throw a ball with his friend, when will his throw travel less distance? When Juan's arm is weak after the hospital stay.

The pizza delivery driver stopped by the streetlamp and noted the address of the red house he was in front of. He looked at the brown home across the street, but that address wasn't visible to him, despite a street light in front.
In this scenario, was the delivery driver closer to the red house.

Jed is trying to win a race against his friend Tyler. Jed is heavyset, and Tyler is thin.
During the race, who will speed up fastest? Tyler.

Tim was playing with his new marble in the living room of his house. He realized that the marble rolled much smoother on the glass table.
The higher friction of the laminate flooring made the marble rolled slower.

Jason tried going down the slide with bare feet but kept putting his feet down to stop himself. When he went with socks, he went much faster.
This is due to the socks providing less friction.

Mary has a cat that she loves to play with. Sometimes she drags the cat toy across the floor so the cat can chase it. When she drags the cat toy across the play room floor it goes quite a far distance. When she drags it across the rumpus room floor it barely moves at all.
This means the play room flo is more smooth

Maggie tried opening a lid after eating popcorn and found she couldn't do it because her hands were too slippery.
The oil made her hands have less resistance.

Two cars are traveling down a highway. They start out next to each other, but in 10 minutes, the car in the right lane is way ahead of the car in the left lane.
Which car wasn't going as fast as the other car? the one on the left.

If Jimbo is 4 feet away from a beetle and 100 feet away from a grasshopper. which insect will seem bigger to him
beetle.

Lisa is studying for her exam. She is working at her desk on the computer and reading. She has no issues reading the tiny print.
The light source in the room must be a? Desk Lamp.

Jabba is lounging on a recliner, watching his favorite dancer perform. She twirls and twerks, whirls and writhes, her chains clanging rhythmically to the exotic music.
Who will sweat less? Jabba will sweat less than the dancer.

Carrie visits Dina at her house. Dina rides her exercise bike while Carrie sits and watches television.
Which of the two will have a smaller pool of sweat at their feet when they are done? Carrie.

Mary and Billy are at the beach skipping rocks. Billy works out everyday, but Mary is weaker.
Who can throw the rocks farther? Billy.

Marcus's son took the pool ball off the pool table to play with it around the house. The son noticed that the pool ball rolled a longer distance on the marble floor than on the shag rug.
The smoother surface is the marble floor.

Emily threw a banana onto the roof and it stuck there, but when she threw it onto the slide, it slid right off.
She concluded that there was less friction on the slide.

Dan drives a car into the garage from the gravel parking lot. The car moves more smoothly into the garage than the parking lot.
This is because there is a bumpier surface in the gravel parking lot.

Sarah used a remote control to turn on two identical lamps with the same power bulb, one nearby and the other all the way across the room.
Which lamp looked brighter? lamp nearby.

Driving an icepick into dirt results in a smoother motion then driving it into ice.
This means that less heat is generated driving the icepick into the dirt.

There was a car nearby and a truck on the highway in the distance
so the car looked bigger than the truck

The mammoth moved slowly through the watering hole. but ran on the hard dirt
because the hard dirt had less resistance.

this object appears to have less mass because
it is more lightyears away Sirius.

Dan is driving his van and it gets very warm when driving down the dirt street. However, the van stays cool driving down the paved street.
The paved street has lower resistance.

Shiloh rolls a ball over a piece of sandpaper and notices that the ball moves very slowly. Shiloh then rolls his ball over a piece of glass, and the ball rolls very quickly.
The ball rolled quickly on the piece of glass because the glass had less friction.

Sarah was listening to her favorite music video on the TV when the phone in the kitchen rang.
She went to answer it, no longer easily able to hear her music because the TV was far away.

A door mat has more resistance then a microfiber cloth.
This means rubbing a spatula across a microfiber cloth creates less heat

Rolling a marble over dirt creates less resistance then rolling it over sand.
This means the marble will travel further over the dirt.

Both Linda and Keith leave for work at the same time. Linda drives in her car and Keith is walking.
If they've both been traveling for two hours, who is more likely to have covered less distance? Keith.

Jim wears a thick Kevlar vest. Jack is just wearing a cotton shirt.
Which top would stop a bullet? Kevlar.

A microphone rolling across a chair makes it get hotter then one rolling across a stage.
Which surface is the most smooth? stage.

Becky wanted her mom to take her photo so it looked like she was holding a castle in her hand.
She needed to stand farther from her mom than the castle was.

Ellie slid a marble across a glass table. Then she slid it over the carpet. The marble moved more fluidly across the glass table than the carpet.
The marble would generate more heat when it slid over the carpet.

A boxer dog can run at a tremendous rate of speed in a swept yard, but not as quickly in a rocky yard.
This means the rocky yard is more rough

John was driving on a country road the other day, when he decided to leave the pavement and go off on a dirt road. His car went much slower, and seemed a lot rougher, on the dirt road, than it had on the pavement.
John decided that the dirt road had more friction than the pavement.

If Sarah and Jenny both run at the same pace. but Jenny runs for 20 more minutes than Sarah. who has traveled farther
Jenny.

A Football player will perspire more
because they are more physical.

The empty cement truck weighed less than the full cement truck so it was faster when
it was accelerating

The plane was much faster than the train
so when both of them had been traveling for an hour the plane went further.

Taylor pushes her shopping cart over a tile floor then over a door mat.
The shopping cart moves more slowly over the door mat than it does the tile floor as a result of there being more friction on the door mat.

Jim rides his bike twice as fast as Sam.
If they start at the same point and follow the same path, who will cover more distance in one hour? Jim.

Carla is getting her suitcase ready for a vacation. She fills it up in the bedroom, and rolls it across the carpeted floor into the kitchen. Carla notices that the suitcase rolls easier on the tile floor in the kitchen than it did in the carpeted bedroom.
This is because the carpet has more friction than the tile floor.

The beauty queen glided across the marble floors. but slowed down on the wooden floors because
it had more resistance.

A child slips more easily on ice than on a sidewalk.
This is because there is less friction on the ice.

A tortoise isn't as fast as a turtle.
Which animal will take a longer time to reach the sea if both are walking across the beach? tortoise.

As the police siren left the area and got further away
it became quieter.

Zack and Jeff decide to ride their bikes to a nearby mall. On the way there, they have an argument as to what to do there and Jeff decides to stop and goof around the park they were passing by.
Therefore, Jeff ended up traveling less than Zack.

Little Sally found that her dad's freight train was able to travel further on sloped tracks, but not as far on flat tracks.
She surmised that the freight train got hotter on flat tracks.

Ryan couldn't decide which type of exercise he wanted to get better at running or yoga so he decided to two both for a week.
Yoga was relaxing, but Ryan discovered with running he was exerting himself more so he sweat more than yoga.

A trolley experiences low friction when cruising along new tracks and high friction when trundling along rusted tracks.
This means the trolley can go a greater distance on the new tracks.

The Sun is close to the Earth. but the stars are farther away. Which appears smaller
stars.

A train has to move much slower on the city track than on the country track.
This means that the train will get a lot hotter moving over city track.

Joe likes to ride his skateboard in many different places. He noticed the wheels got hotter when riding in the street then when riding on the half pipe near his house.
This means that his skateboard can go a greater distance between pushes on the half pipe or in the.

When Linda needed to sharpen her knife, she did it by rubbing her knife over two different surfaces. She tried the whetstone and noticed that it was bumpier than the chunk of rubber.
She realizes that the sharpening surface that gets hotter to the touch when a knife is rubbed against it is the whetstone.

Jerry goes running on the same road everyday. but during vacation he decided to go running on the beach. he noticed that his time was much slower than normal
and came to the conclusion that there was more resistance on the road.

Mike can roll his grapefruit over the counter and watch it roll a greater distance then when he rolls it in his garage.
This means the counter has less friction

Bill can't decide which room to put his piano in. His bedroom, which has a smooth tiled floor, or his living room, which has rough shag carpeting. He pushes the piano between the two rooms several times.
On which surface does pushing the piano generate more heat, Carpet.

Kathy's motorcycle experiences less resistance cruising over a paved road then over a dirt road.
This means the motorcycle heats up more over the dirt road.

Kate is at the movies and drops her cup on the floor accidentally. The cup rolls away very quickly on the concrete floor, but it slows down once it hits the carpeted floor.
The cup was faster on the concrete floor because the concrete floor had less friction.

Alex is pushing his son in a toy car.
It is easier to speed up the car when the boy is out of it.

At the restaurant, Tim waited in line to get to the salad bar but got back to his table quickly.
What trip took Tim the least amount of time back to his table.

John and Steven decided to do an experiment.
They took one brick, and one feather, and threw them out his second story window, when they looked down they discovered that the feather was little floating because it has less mass than the brick.

The trunk on the old tree was much thicker than the trunk on the new tree so
it was a stronger tree.

Sliding a shirt across the floor makes it heat up less then sliding it across the bed.
This means that the shirt can slide a greater distance across which surface? flo.

Bertha loves driving around in her car, because it speeds up very quickly.
However, if she were to pick up a few friends and drive them around, she'd probably find that her car speeds up slower.

A very large asteroid is mid-way between the Earth and the moon.
In which direction will it be pulled by gravity? towards the Earth.

Andy was running across the tile floor and sliding across it. There was less friction here, but he thought he could do the same outside on the cement.
When Andy tries to slide across the cement, his socks will make more heat than when he slides across the tile floor.

As you sit at your desk and work on your laptop tonight look outside.
Which object appears smaller the moon or your laptop? Moon.

Sandy's microphone heated up less when she accidentally dropped it into the punch bowl compared to when she accidentally dropped it into the water bowl.
She figured out that the punch bowl had more friction

Two cats sense a predator coming, so they run for cover. They both sprint for the same amount of time, and the cat running alone is able to move more quickly than the cat carrying the kitten.
This means that the cat that travels more distance is the cat alone.

A matchbox can slide across a greenhouse floor, but it doesn't move as fast as when it is slid across the backyard.
Which surface is the smoother one? greenhouse flo.

Candace always looked refreshed and well kempt right after her workout sessions, but Diane was drenched in sweat and breathing heavily at the conclusion of hers.
Which of the two women probably put in less workout time actually exercising? Candace.

A UFO flying through night sky experiences less friction then when it flies through day sky.
This means that the night sky is smoother

A falcon takes less time to get to its food than a sloth does.
Why? the falcon is faster than the sloth.

A pregnant mommy gave birth easier on the hospital bed, than on the ground.
The ground is more smooth.

Kevin rolled his ping pong ball over a sheet of paper and over a bathtub. He figured out that the sheet of paper is rougher than his bathtub.
This indicates that the bathtub has less friction

I watched the snowflakes go from tiny specks in the sky to a nice size once they fell on my face.
When did the snowflakes seem bigger on my face.

One of Sarah's neighbors spilled dog food all over the stairs. The dog food pieces are on three stairways and all over the landings. Sarah gets mad and kicks a piece of dog food. The dog food flies across the wooden planks from one side of the staircase landing to the other. The dog food reaches the neighbor's door mat. It moves a few inches across the doormat.
Why didn't the dog food move further across the doormat? The door mat is a spikier surface.

Bill punches a green window and it doesnt break. Then he punches a blue window and it breaks.
The more powerful window is the green window.

Mercury has less mass than Venus so
it has weaker gravity.

A jelly bean rolling across a couch has an easy time, but a jelly bean rolling across a carpet has a hard time.
This means the couch will allow the jelly bean to roll a greater distance

There was a man standing near a speaker
and it was louder than the speaker that was far away.

Mister Bigsby rolled a baseball down two different hills. The first hill is a pile of rocks and the second hill is fresh cement. Mister Bigsby noticed that the basball travels farther down the fresh cement as opposed to the pile of rocks.
This is because the fresh cement is smoother.

The first little pig built his house of thin straw. The second little pig built his house of thick wood.
Whose house would be stronger when the big bad wolf arrived? second little pig.

When Mike slides his cup across the carpet is heats up less then when he slides it across the rug.
This means the carpet is more smooth

A police officer generates more heat sliding into an alleyway then sliding into a sidewalk.
This means the alleyway has more friction

The tree branch was much thicker than the flower branch so
it was stronger.

Lyle takes his jeep to the beach. When he drives it on the concrete, the jeep goes fast and easily.
When Lyle drives the jeep on the sand, it is slow and hard to move. The sand has more resistance.

Tossing a paper ball into a wastebasket creates more friction then throwing it into a recycle bin.
This means that the recycle bin is more even

Jim rolled his water bottle to find that his quartz countertop had more friction.
The water bottle rolled a greater distance on the quartz countertop.

A hand can move faster through air than through water.
That means that there is less friction in air.

A jeep's tires heat up more off road compared to on road.
This means that on road has less friction

A dog liked to roam the neighborhood. On Tuesday the dog walked down the street for a good amount of time, and on Wednesday the dog walked down the street but stopped after walking a lesser amount of time.
On which walk did the dog walk a greater distance down the street? on Tuesday.

Linda and Melinda decided to kayak across a lake. Linda made it across the lake before Melinda did.
Which one of them didn't go as fast as the other? Melinda.

Blake pushes his toy train across the wood floor, then across the carpeted floor. Blake sees that the train went a greater distance on the wood floor.
The train didn't go very far on the carpeted floor because it had more resistance.

A per so n that is sitting around will likely sweat less than a per
so n that is running

When Tammy tried to slide the glass mixing bowl down the marble counter top to her mom, it came to a dead stop when it reached the wooden cutting board.
The bowl came to a stop because the wooden cutting board has more resistance.

Ted can slide faster on his wood floor while wearing socks than on his carpet.
This means he will travel further on his wood floor?.

Jim could run twice as fast as his sister Jen. They had to deliver some urgent vaccines to the next town to stop the spread of a dangerous virus.
Who should run with the vaccines in order to get them there in a shorter amount of time? Jim.

Bob slid a coin across his dining room table, then slid the same coin across a wood picnic table. He noticed that the wood picnic table caused more resistance.
Which surface would the coin slide the greater distance on? The dining room table.

Milo was putting up a new fence on his farm in a couple different locations. He figured out that plunging his fence posts into a grassy field created less heat then plunging them into a dirt field.
After thinking about this information he realized that the grassy field was smoother

Sue wrapped saran wrap over the bowl of her toilet and dropped a potato in the middle of it. The potato fell straight through. She then put down the toilet lid and conducted the experiment again, and the potato bounced harmlessly off the lid.
That's because the saran wrap is thinner.

Margie likes to push a nectarine down the slides in the park. There are two slides, one which has a flat, smooth surface and the other which is bumpier and rougher.
The nectarine will go faster down the flat slide.

If a snail and rabbit were both traveling towards the nearby school
who would be closer after ten minutes the rabbit.

Mary was practicing karate by trying to break objects. She broke the plywood easily with her hand, but couldn't break the wooden stud no matter how hard she hit it.
Which object is the thicker one? wooden stud.

As Bob got closer to the street lamp he noticed that
it got brighter than when he was far away

David and Michael are doing laps at the park.
If David is running and Michael is walking, who travelled a higher distance after ten minutes? David.

A toddler is rolling a ball on the grass and rolls it on to the sand were it immediately stops.
The sand stopped the ball because it has more friction than the grass.

Ian rolls two balls down a sidewalk at the same time. One is red, the other is white. The white ball goes further than the red one.
Which ball went slower? red ball.

A skateboard wheel gets hotter when rolling over a gravel driveway compared to rolling over a dirty path.
Which surface is providing more friction? gravel driveway.

Frank figured out that carpet is much more rough compared to his bowling lane when he accidentally tossed the bowl poorly.
This means that bowling lane has less friction

The bus driver drove faster on the dirt road than the unpaved road.
because the dirt road has Less friction.

A bike zips by but
it is passed by a car.

A toy car slid down the floor of a movie theater after it was cleaned. That same car was was rolled down the floor that was pretty sticky. It didn't go far at all.
The car went further on the clean floor because it has less resistance?.

James is at the arena watching his favorite boxer go head to head with his nemesis in the ring.
Which of the two is least likely to need to wipe their face with a dry towel? James, sitting in a chair.

Martin rolled the orange across the sidewalk with lower resistance while rolling it across the grass had higher resistance.
He saw upon rolling the orange that more distance was covered on the sidewalk.

A boulder rolling down a rugged hillside experiences more friction then one rolling down a clearcut hillside.
This means the boulder can reach a higher top speed across the clearcut hillside.

If John stands on a plastic cup and a glass cup. which cup is less likely to break
Plastic cup.

Carl decides to try to roller blade over the shag carpet in the living room and then over the wood floor in the hallway.
He will roll more quickly over the wood floor because it has less friction.

John's glove heats up more if he pushes it over his workbench rather than pushing it over his wooden desk.
This means that the workbench is rougher

Jim lives 20 miles from the Riot servers. Jeff lives 2000 miles from the Riot servers. Both have the same internet speed.
Who's ping will be higher? Jeff.

A light bulb rolling in a hallway experiences little resistance, while one rolling on a black carpet experiences a lot of resistance.
This means the hallway will allow the light bulb to roll a greater distance

A toddler was playing with a small golf ball left resting in the living room. The toddler repeatedly rolls the ball over to an adult who was supervising, and noticed that, when the ball was rolled on the rug floor, it did not move well.
The toddler noted the difference in smooth movement between the tile floor and.

Sherry rolls her ball down two lanes. The ball moves fast down the red lane, but slows down on the green lane.
The ball slows in the green lane because it has more friction.

Two people get chosen out of a crowd at a basketball game to see who can make a half court shot. The first person is a kid, the second person is an adult. The adult made the shot, but the kid didn't throw it anywhere close.
This is because the kid is not as strong.

A sedan and a garbage truck start side by side at a traffic light. When the light turns green both vehicle race to reach 50 miles per hour.
Which vehicle will win the race? Sedan.

Iron man has much more strength than a child
so he can throw a ball further.

A cat and a dog both run at 5 mph.
If the cat runs for a longer time then the dog, which will have gone the greater distance? cat.

Ron is running around the track with Roy. They both run for an hour, but Ron is quicker.
Who ran a greater distance? Ron.

The ceramic vase was less flexible than the plastic ball so
it was more breakable.

Jameson is on the pier, preparing his dinghy for a fishing trip. Far off in the distance, he can just make out a cruise ship sailing away.
Compared to his dinghy, the cruise ship looks much smaller.

Kevin drops a nickel on the sidewalk and it quickly rolls away into a grassy yard, where it stops.
The nickel stopped in the grassy yard because the yard had more resistance.

Kate found out that her table is smooth while her floor is rough by rolling a yarn ball across them.
Her yarn ball traveled slower on the flo.

If an asteroid passes halfway between the Earth and the moon. in which direction is it going to be pulled
towards the Earth.

Jean is trying to use a piece of plastic to hold up a heavy table.
The piece that will best support the table is thicker.

John and Jack are in a dead lifting competition. John has a strong powerful back and Jack has a thin weak back.
Who will dead lift the least amount of weight? Jack.

Marcy is rolling her yellow ball down her paved driveway and the ball rolls really far. Then Marcy rolls the yellow ball down the muddy sidewalk and the ball stops rolling.
The ball stopped on the muddy sidewalk because it has more friction.

The robot glided quickly along the seam it but slipped and fell on the wet kitchen floor because
it had more resistance.

Meghan likes to play "Bowl the Pear. " She tries bowling it both in her driveway and in her neighbor's driveway. She notices that her neighbor's driveway is smoother than her driveway.
When she bowls the pear down her driveway it will move slower than in her neighbor's driveway.

Brenda and Pat enjoy a day at the gym. Pat doesn't exercise as much as Brenda does, though.
Because of this Pat is sweating less than Brenda.

Jimbo knows that his living room table is smoother then his coffee table.
This means that when he slides his placemat across both surfaces it will go a greater distance across the living room table.

Carol went on a hike with her friends after the rain. She noticed she could walk over the dirt pathway easily, but when she came across mud she really struggled.
Carol thought to herself the dirt pathway must have more resistance. Was it the

A race car and a pickup both drove on the highway at the same speed. The driver of the race car got tired and parked, while the driver of the pickup continued on for a longer time.
Which vehicle ultimately went the greater distance? pickup.

A patio is smoother than a sand lot.
This means that when a bird runs across the sand lot it experiences more friction

When it comes to holding up weight a string is much thinner than a wood beam so
it is weaker.

A beagle running around in a playground experiences less friction then one running around in a backyard.
This means the beagle has to run slower in the backyard.

The average guy could not throw the ball as far as the professional baseball player
because he was weaker.

Roz is going skiing. She skis down a muddy hill and then down a snowy hill. Roz notices that she goes faster down the snowy hill.
That is because the muddy hill had more friction.

Two horses are being ridden out of the same barn. The white horse is going the same speed as the grey horse. The grey horse travels longer than the white horse.
Which horse went further? grey horse.

A Motorcycle and an SUV are stopped at a stop light.
When the light turns green which vehicle gets the jump on the other? Motorcycle.

A per so n that is lifting weights will usually be more sweaty than
so meone sleeping

Kim's wallet slid out of her pocket while she was in the car. It slid slower on the car seat then when it slid out of her pocket on the couch the day before.
She realized that this meant the car seat offered more resistance

Johnny was a Taekwondo black belt. Daniel was a white belt. They each kicked at each other at the same time.
Who's kick covered the least ground? Daniel.

Asteroids can be huge. But not as big as the sun.
Which has a weaker gravity? Asteroid.

If you were to drop two cars from the same height
which would reach the ground first a large truck.

Sandra's bolt experiences less friction rolling over her work bench than when it rolls over her garage floor.
This means that the bolt will roll slower over garage flo.

A bullet train can move much faster on the tracks then when it's in the switching yard.
This means that the bullet train can travel further on tracks.

Abigail is very thin, and her friend Megan is muscular and broad. Both are trying to move a heavy box.
Which will move it first? Megan.

Todd gets in his car on Monday and drives until he gets tired. He does the same thing on Tuesday but stops earlier in the day.
On which day will he have covered less ground? Tuesday.

Jax drops a roll of toilet paper on the floor. The toilet paper rolls onto the carpet and slowly comes to a stop. When he later drops the same roll of toilet paper on a wood floor, the roll of toilet paper keeps rolling out of the room.
The roll of toilet paper went a greater distance on the wood floor because it had less friction.

Jason noticed that his ATV moved faster on the ice than the sand.
That is because the sand has more resistance.

Aluminum foil is more flexible then a metal beam.
Which object is more likely to break when bent in half? aluminum foil.

Trish is shouting while she's on a walk.
The person she's approaching notices that the yelling as Trish approaches is louder.

Ally is practicing riding her bike. First she practices inside on the carpet, then she practices on the sidewalk outdoors. Ally notices that she goes faster on the sidewalk than she does on the carpet.
That is because the sidewalk has less resistance.

Sara likes to throw her sponge ball around. After a while, she notices that rolls more quickly on her on her driveway so she had to chase it, then when she's playing on the grass.
Which surface has the greatest resistance? grass?.

Milon noticed that his pear rolled across a granite counter in a rugged manner and across a laminate counter in a smooth and stately manner.
This means that his pear encountered less resistance rolling over the granite counter.

Ada had two snacks, a pretzel and a piece of licorice. She noticed that the licorice could bend easily but the pretzel could not.
Which one was less likely to break when she bent it? licorice.

Jim had two arrows. He had a rubber arrow and a wooden arrow.
Which one would be more likely to break? the wooden arrow.

A golf cart rolls more easily along a concrete floor than it does along a rubberized track
because there is less resistance on the concrete flo.

Neptune has a greater mass then Pluto.
Which planet emits stronger gravitational waves? Neptune.

Pam took a large piece of cardboard and slid on it across the snow, and another day she slid on the cardboard across the grass.
The cardboard traveled a greater distance across the snow than it did across the grass because there was more resistance on the grass.

Ian rides his bike in the house on the carpet and the bike moves fast easily. When Ian rides his bike on gravel outdoors, the bike moves slowly.
There is less friction on the carpet.

The car was much lighter than the full dump truck so
it accelerated faster.

Suzie is trying to decide whether or not she should take an airplane or driver her car to Florida.
If she wants to spend the least amount of time, she should take the plane.

Jim's semi truck encounters low resistance moving downhill and high resistance moving up hill.
Jim's semi truck will move a greater distance going downhill.

A speed boat and a row boat take off from a dock. The row boat is barely moving, while the speed boat zooms off at a quick pace. Each boat stops at the same time.
Which boat is closer to the dock it left from? row boat.

Atreyu saw two pin-prick green dots in the dark cave far ahead. As he got closer, he saw they were the glowing eyes of the Gmork. When the Gmork lunged at him, Atreyu saw its eyes were very green, very hungry, and very bright.
When did Gmork's eyes appear dimmer? when they were far.

Jame's mother has a photo of Jane standing taller as a mountain.
It looks that way because the mountain was farther away.

Mark kicks a soccer ball across grass and the ball travels pretty far. He kicks the ball over gravel and the ball doesn't move too far.
The grass has less resistance than the gravel.

Mary likes to ride her raft all kinds of places. She learned over the years that riding her raft in the ocean created more friction then riding it in the lake near her home.
This means her raft can float a greater distance in the lake.

The monkey was much stronger than the man so
it was able to throw a ball farther.

Sean is riding his tricycle. He pedals out of the garage from the cement floor and onto the bumpier stone driveway.
There will be more heat from the wheels on the stone driveway.

A piece of hair is much thinner than a rope so
it is weaker.

Tina is racing her two dogs. Her greyhound is slim, her rottweiler is heavy.
The dog that gets faster more quickly is the greyhound.

When Rose tried to clean up a spill with the off-brand paper towels she had started buying, it made an even bigger mess when the flimsy towel broke apart. She went back to the heavier and more absorbent name brand, which was more expensive but worth it.
Which paper towel was stronger? The name brand was stronger.

Milo knows that a frozen lake is smoother than a grass field. This means that when he slides his paper plane across one of the two surfaces it will experience less friction.
Which surface is that? frozen lake.

Ariel is making a sandwich and drops a jar of jam on the floor. The jar of jam rolls on the tile floor and slows down on the carpeted floor.
The jar of jam slowed down on the carpeted floor because it had more friction than the tile floor.

A dirt patch is rougher than a driveway.
This means a pebble rolling across a dirt patch will heat up less.

Milo was shooting his gun for practice one day when he noticed the bullet travelled further through dirt then through cement.
He realized this meant the bullet got hotter when moving through the cement.

Mia is in her wheelchair and needs to cross her yard and get across the street. She slowly pushes across the grassy lawn and then rolls faster across the paved path across the street.
The paved path had lower resistance.

A young boy stretches two rubber bands of the same thickness to see which will be the first to snap. The red rubber band feels much stiffer than the yellow rubber band.
As a result, which rubber band will snap first? the red rubber band.

Shep and Chris are driving on the same road and going the same speed. However, Shep has traveled longer than Chris has.
As a result Shep has traveled further than Chris.

If a runner runs quicker on a composite track and slower on a dirt track
this means the composite track is more smooth

Sam is standing in an underground tunnel. It's pretty dim where he is but he can spot two lights. The light to the west appears brilliant, and the light to the east appears pretty dim.
If he wants to walk to the closest light, which was should he go? west.

Tim is playing with his son. He rolls a ball to the boy across a rubber mat. After a few tries, he decides to try to roll it across the wooden floor instead. The ball goes at a higher speed on the wooden floor.
This is because the rubber mat has more resistance.

A man rolling a tire realized that it rolled much longer on his asphalt driveway
since the dirt road was much rougher.

The dimmer of two objects would be the sun
due to being far away.

Frank notices that when he roller skates on a concrete surface, it has less resistance than if he were to use his roller skates on a golf course.
Frank realizes that when he travels slower as he roller skates on the golf course.

Bill was driving his car to work, and realized that when he was driving on the street, the car moved quicker while using the same amount of throttle as when he was driving on the gravel.
This is because there is less friction on the asphalt.

Harry figured out that his dock has more resistance then his workstation when he slid his hat over the two surfaces.
Harry's hat reached a higher speed moving over the workstation.

Pushing a shoe over carpet creates more resistance than pushing the shoe over laminate.
This means that the carpet is rougher

If it's taken significantly longer to reach one's destination. they must have been traveling by
Bike.

A pot lid that is slid along a washed counter has very little resistance working against it, while one slid along a dirty counter has a lot of resistance working against it.
Which surface would cause the pot lid to suffer less of an increase in temperature when slid along it? washed counter.

Jason is with his grandmother at the park. She has a cane to walk but Jason is lively. They decide to walk around the track.
If they go their own pace, who will walk farther in five minutes? Jason.

Josh was riding his bike down the driveway. His sister was riding her tricycle near him. Josh rode much faster.
The bicycle traveled a greater distance.

John discovered that his train moved much slower on pavement then when it was placed onto some train tracks.
The train generated more heat on pavement.

Penny rode her bicycle quickly on the pavement and had to go slow through the thick mud because
it had more resistance.

Jane found she slipped often in the tub after her sister had been in it, but not after her brother who cleaned up after himself.
Is this because the clean tub provided more resistance.

Two fisherman are out on a big lake when a heavy fog unexpectedly covers them and they can barely see anything. But the fisherman hear two fog horns calling from the shore. The one towards the left is louder than the one off towards the right.
Which one should they head towards if they want to save time getting to shore? the one off to the left.

The tiled counters of the nineties have given way to the smoother, easier to wipe counters of the next couple of decades, like granite.
This is because the tiled counters have less resistance than the current types?

If two identical cargo ships leave at exactly the same time. which would be going the fastest after 5 minutes
the unloaded ship.

A ball moves slower across the carpet than it does on the marble flooring.
This is because the marble flooring has less resistance.

Two trolleys are running on parallel tracks. They both go in the same distance for 40 minutes. The trolley on the left hasn't gone as far as the trolley on the right.
Which one had the higher velocity? the one on the right track.

A spaceship explores the moon and later explores an asteroid. The moon is several times more massive than the asteroid.
Which celestial body will the spaceship have an easier time escaping due to its lower force of gravity? asteroid.

The lamborghini was lighter than the truck so in the race
it accelerated faster.

Bob has 5 monitors that he uses to do his work on. The arms he has them mounted on hold them in different positions and distances from him. When he drags an application from the one on the right to the one on the left, the text is harder for him to read.
That is because the text is littler.

A business card isn't as thick as a cardboard sheet.
This means that the business card is less strong

The police car sped crazily on the thick ice but slowed down on the dry Street because
it had more resistance.

Tim is driving his golf cart down the driveway and into the garage. He realizes that the golf cart puts off more heat when it travels over the gravel driveway than when it does when he pulls onto the cement floor of the garage.
This is because the gravel is rougher.

Hulk is the strongest being in the universe. The Hulk and Black Panther have a friendly bet. Who can throw a large boulder the farthest.
Who wins this clash of the superheroes? Hulk.

Dylan threw a balloon and basketball out the window.
The basketball had a stronger gravity pull because of it's greater mass.

Jenny noticed that when putting leggings on they went on much smoother when her legs were shaved versus when they weren't.
The shaved legs caused less heat due to friction as the stubbly legs did.

David tried riding his bicycle on pavement and then on sand and found that it was much harder to get it to move on sand.
He concluded that the material that has more friction is sand.

A crab can scurry a greater distance over a beach then over an ocean floor.
Which surface gives the crab more resistance? ocean flo.

A small young star has formed and gained mass over time. However it's still a small fraction of the mass of a red giant star that is nearby. The small young star is sucked into orbit around the red giant star due to the higher level of gravitational pull of the red giant star.
This means that the red giant star has more powerful gravity.

Harry learned that a hot pan has lower resistance then a placement when he was sliding an ice cube across different surfaces.
The ice cube moved faster across the hot pan.

A table leg rolled across laminate has an easier time rolling then one rolled across wood.
Which surface will allow the table leg to reach a higher top speed? laminate.

A steel bearing falls onto a garage floor. It rolls across the floor and out the door onto the gravel driveway. The bearing produces more heat as it rolls over the gravel.
This is because the garage flo is more smooth.

Stacey is rubbing her fingers on various items at the grocery store. She notices that when she rubs her fingers on the glass jar, it has less resistance than if she rubs her fingers on a pair of corduroy pants.
Which object will generate less heat when Stacey rubs her fingers on it? glass jar.

A cup of coffee spills on a desk and a mouse pad.
The coffee spreads more quickly on the desk because it has less friction.

Jeff was rolling his pencil across different surfaces to see how much heat was generated. He noticed that rolling the pencil over pea gravel generated more heat than rolling it over carpet.
The pencil moved slower over pea gravel.

The planet Saturn has more mass then the planet Mercury.
Which plant has less of a gravitational field? Mercury.

Mike knows that a train is slower then a plane.
If he rides both vehicles for 40 minutes, which will have taken him a lesser distance? train.

Jim's knife got hotter cutting through carrot compared to cutting through an apple.
This means the carrot has more resistance

The fire chief of a city knew that his fire engine is forced to travel slower over a crowded road compared to an open road.
He used this information to determine that the open road has more smooth

Kelly rolls a watermelon on a waxed floor and on a dirty floor. The waxed floor is smoother than the dirty floor.
When rolled on the dirty floor, the watermelon will roll slower.

Mary's wagon heats up less when rolling through the weeds then when rolling through the gravel.
This means her wagon is forced to roll slower in the gravel.

John was driving to the beach. When he got to the beach, he noticed the car didn't go as fast as when he was on the roadway.
This is because the sand is not as smooth as the road.

Pauline couldn't read by the faint moonlight, so she went inside and sat by the brightness of the living room lamp instead.
Which source of illumination was nearer to Pauline? The lamp was nearer.

A spoon experiences low resistance when plunged into soup, and high resistance when plunged into ice cream.
This means that the spoon will plunge a greater distance into the soup.

Ted practiced his bowling form one day on a dirt patch near his house after bowling a game at a bowling alley. He observed that the bowling ball moved much more quickly down the wooden bowling lane than it did on the dirt patch.
This means that the wooden bowling lane has less friction.

Pam is standing next to Jim. David is standing across the street.
Who will appear larger Pam.

Milo was rowing across a lake one day. He learned that his oar heated up a considerable amount when rowing through choppy water, but not so much when rowing through calm water.
This made him realize that his oar moved slower through the choppy water.

Penelope noticed that her hand got hot when she moved it quickly back and forth over the carpet, but that it didn't get very hot when she moved it over the tile.
She realized that there's more friction in the carpet.

James is riding his scooter on the sidewalk. The sidewalk ends and he decides to try riding the scooter on the grass. It's harder to push the scooter on the grass because of the rough surface.
James is able to ride faster on the sidewalk.

The Batman action figure was very flexible
and Spiderman was rigid; which was more likely to break Spiderman.

The toy train goes faster on the floor than the towel.
because the floor has less resistance.

Terri noticed that when serving the tennis ball it moved faster on the clay court than the grass court.
This was because the grass court has more resistance.

A the car pulled away and started to head down the road
it started to look smaller.

Mike was cleaning his yard after the leaves fell in the fall. He dragged his rake back and forth to clean up leaves and rocks. When he cleaned up the rocks he noticed his rake got hotter then when he cleaned up the leaves.
He then surmised that the rocks had more resistance

A piece of steak if thicker then a piece of paper.
Which object is harder to rip in half? steak.

A soldier is hunkering down with a malnourished child in a foxhole in the middle of a war zone when an enemy grenade rolls between them. The child throws it first, but it barely moves more than a few feet. The soldier scrambles to grab it and chucks it clear across the battlefield, right back at the enemy.
The reason it went farther is the soldier has greater strength than the child.

A turtle experiences low friction crawling across sandy ground and high friction crawling across dirty ground.
This means it can travel a greater distance across the sandy ground.

Jake pushes his jeep down a sandy hill and the jeep slowly goes down it. Then Jake pushes his jeep down a glass hill and the jeep quickly reaches the bottom.
The jeep went down the glass hill faster because it had less resistance.

Broccoli sliding around on a cutting board experiences less friction then broccoli sliding around on a floor.
This means the broccoli will heat up less on the cutting board.

Shirley rolls her baseball down the path and onto the sidewalk. The muddy path makes the ball go slowly, but the baseball speeds up when it hits the icy sidewalk.
This is because there is more resistance on the muddy path.

David and Joe live together and go out at the same time. David drove his car and Joe rode his skateboard.
After one hour, who traveled less distance? Joe.

A bullet fires out of a gun much faster than an arrow shot out of a bow
after the same amount of time the bullet will go a farther distance.

Ross made everyone laugh when he slid across the wood floor in his socks. He tried doing it at his friends on a carpeted floor. He barely went an inch on the carpet, while he went feet on the wood floor.
Ross would be making less heat against the wood flo.

A train conductor switched courses from a track, to wheels on ground for a faster ride.
The wheels were way more smooth.

Peter is throwing a feather and a rock out of the window at the same time. The rock lands on the ground first.
Which object has a stronger gravity the rock?.

Mike noticed that his sheet of paper was thinner then his piece of cardboard.
Which object would he likely have an easier time ripping in half? paper.

Mike dropped his hypodermic needle in a parking lot and noticed it felt more rough then when he dropped it in the driveway.
This means the driveway has less friction

Lana rolled her water bottle to her friend, and she saw that if she rolled it along the concrete it moved with more speed than it did if she rolled it along the concrete.
There was more resistance to the water bottle on sand.

Ellen is stronger than Sarah.
Both throw a softball from home plate out into the field. Which throw goes farther? Ellen's.

Callie is attending a concert.
At one point, the mic drops out, she must be sitting where if she can still hear the singer? Front row.

Max knocks over his mothers favorite glass jar off the table as well as the peanut butter jar made of plastic.
Which object will survive the fall? Plastic jar.

A rabbit can run faster in a field and slower in a cactus field.
This means the rabbit gets hotter running through a cactus field.

The CIA spook was interrogating the AI researcher to find out his secret password. He hit the researcher with a hose, and it bounced back. He then used a stick.
THWACK! The stick snapped in half! The CIA spook noticed the hose was more flexible.

Terry kicks a soccer ball over the short grass in the soccer field. Later he kicks the ball into the bushes. The ball moves at a lower speed when he kicks it into the bushes.
The ball will produce more heat when Terry kicks it into the bushes.

Jim owns both a truck and a car. The truck weighs more then the car.
Which vehicle will accelerate at a greater rate of speed when he presses down on the gas pedal? car.

Christy and Kevin are practicing shooting basketballs in the gym. Christy continues shooting baskets long after Kevin has stopped.
Whose wristbands would have absorbed more perspiration in this scenario? Christy.

Jeff is in the ocean when he sees a shark. Jeff realizes that if he doesn't swim to shore, he will be killed.
The shark catches Jeff before he gets to shore because the shark is faster.

Milo's maul experiences less resistance chopping through a pine stump then through an oak stump.
This means that his maul heats up more chopping the oak stump.

Matt knows that the air indoors is calmer then the air outdoors.
Which area will he be forced to throw his frisbee slower in? outdoors.

When I folded a pencil in my hands it broke. however when I folded a rubber b and in my hands it easily folded over. that is
because rubber bands are more flexible than pencils.

Toby went ice skating during the winter and noticed that he hardly had to put any effort into moving forward when he switched from the sidewalk to the ice on the pond.
Which surface was smoother? Ice pond.

As they were approaching two planets of equal distance, one called Namura 17 and the other known as Pylos 119, the spaceship's crew found themselves being pulled toward Namura 17 by a strong gravitational force.
Which planet was the larger of the two? Namura 17.

The warehouse worker pushed the box cart faster on the warehouse cement floor than on the rug because
it had more resistance.

A huge bus and a little car were stopped at an intersection. The light turned green.
Who made it across the intersection first? the car.

Ralph let the rubber ball roll downhill on the cement driveway then retrieved it and let it roll downhill on the grassy hill. He noted the ball rolled faster and went a longer distances on the cement driveway then on the grassy hill.
He surmised that there was less friction on the cement driveway.

Adam noticed bright cop lights approach him from behind and pass ahead of him.
When would these cop lights appear dimmest? Far away.

Mike is standing closer to a lantern then to a streetlight.
Which light source seems brighter to him? lantern.

Milo can roll his dumbell at a greater rate of speed in his gym then in his yoga studio.
Which surface has the most friction? yoga studio.

A pen writing on a paper napkin experiences more friction then one writing on a cloth napkin.
This means the motion of the pen is quicker on the cloth napkin.

A dog can run faster through short grass then through tall grass.
This means the dog generates less heat through the short grass.

James is watching it rain one day. He notices that the rain travels faster over the driveway then the bumpy shingles of his house's roof.
Which surface is more smooth driveway.

Rolling a melon down a flower bed generates less heat then rolling it down a raised bed.
This means the melon will roll at a quicker rate down the flower bed.

The irritable scientist working in her laboratory built her machine with both a plastic tube and a glass tube. She liked that the plastic tube could bend easily and she liked that she could see through the glass tube even though the glass tube did not bend at all. One time she got angry and tried to snap the tubes over her leg but could break only one of them.
Which tube did she most likely break the glass tube?.

Jack was driving down his driveway. He accidentally went off the driveway into the dirt. He noticed the drive was much smoother on the driveway than on the dirt.
That is because there is more resistance on the dirt.

Todd found out that his sheet is much less rough compared to his blanket by sliding his pookie across them.
He also learned that his blanket has more friction

Rick rides his bike down a rocky path, and sees that his bike speeds up when he hits a grass patch.
The bike went smoother over the grass patch than the rocky path because the grass patch had less resistance.

Jerry's car is outfitted with special snow tires that have chains on them. Brad's car has regular tires with no chains.
Which tire would glide more easily on snow and ice, thereby creating safety issues? regular tire.

When Peter tried to take an afternoon nap in the living room, construction noise from next door always kept him awake. When he changed his afternoon nap location to the den instead, the room was noise-free and he slept well.
Which room is likely to be nearer to the construction site next door? living room.

A rabbit can't run as fast as a chicken.
If both animals run at top speed for the same amount of time, which will go the greater distance? chicken.

Sliding a lunch bag across a shiny table makes it go a greater distance then sliding it across a matte table.
Which table will make the bottom of the bag stay cooler? shiny table.

Alan was driving his car. The newly paved road was easier to drive on then the older road.
Alan was able to go faster on the newly paved road.

A boy was riding his skateboard on the sidewalk and noticed that the ride was smooth and he could move quickly. He ventured off onto a dirt path and noticed that the ride was slow and bumpy.
He concluded that riding the skateboard on the sidewalk was easier and less friction.

Rolling a golf ball along the fairly is very easy, but rolling one along tall grass is difficult.
Which surface will let a golf ball roll for a longer distance? fairway.

Two paper planes are thrown at a time, into the air. One is made of thick cardboard, one is made of thin paper.
Which paper plane flies faster? paper plane.

The pharaoh lounged lazily on his spacious throne while a slave girl walked back and forth to the table to bring him grapes.
Who will sweat less? the pharaoh.

The surface of a chair has more friction than a table, as Mike proved by running a towel over them.
This means the surface of the chair is rougher

Brian's cat Fluffy is right by his house so he can hear her meowing. Later though, Fluffy wanders out into the field by Brian's house. Fluffy is meowing but Brian doesn't know where she is because he can't hear her.
This is because Fluffy's meow is more difficult to hear when Fluffy is out in the field.

Rambo was walking in the bright moonlight to the abandoned mine where he was staying. As he walked into the shaft, he noticed that the moonlight became fainter and fainter the deeper he went into the dark bowels of the Earth.
That's because the moon was further away when he was inside.

Tim's helicopter generated more heat while flying through hot air then flying through cold air.
He then assumed that the hot air had more friction

For their move across the country, Oliver was happy to take a plane, but his wife Polly was afraid to fly so she drove instead.
Who completed the trip first? Oliver completed the trip first.

In an amateur drag race, Kevin reached the finish line before his competitor, Harold, was even halfway there.
Between the two of them, which racer's dragster had been souped up? Kevin had the souped up dragster.

A raccoon gets hotter running across a trash can then across a patio.
This means the raccoon makes more friction running across the trash can.

John accidentally knocks over two water cups on the table. One is made of glass the other is made of rubber.
Which one will break? Glass Cup.

Carter sees a bird in the sky. and it looks so tiny! The bird begins to fly towards Carter.
and so the bird now is bigger.

When the man heard the car horn down the street it didn 't seem too loud. but when the car horn got closer
it was louder.

Peter loves driving his ATV and has learned that it moves faster on concrete than on a gravel road.
This is because concrete has less resistance.

A per so n that is doing pushups will likely sweat more than
so meone that is standing around

Marcus rode his Segway over a grassy knoll slower than down a rolling hill.
The grassy knoll had a higher resistance.

A van is forced to move slower on a bumpy road compared to on a straight road.
This means that the van will get hotter driving over the bumpy road.

Henry bought an ATV. He noticed that the tires got warmer when he pushed it outside in the gravel parking lot, than when he pushed it across the sales floor.
This is because the gravel parking lot is rougher.

Barry was driving his new car. As he drove on the new road, there were no problems, but it was a rough drive on the gravel side road.
Which road way would have generated more heat as Barry drove? gravel.

A motorcycle heats up quickly when driving on gravel, but not when driving on ice.
The gravel has more resistance than the ice.

Johnny just got done playing a game of soccer. Robbie just got done napping.
Who is sweating less? Robbie.

Tracy is yelling at her dog. Her dog is frightened by the yelling, and runs away.
When the dog runs away, the yelling is quieter.

I tried to bend a piece of paper. and it folded in half without and tears. when I tried to fold glass it began to crack. that is
because glass is less flexible than paper.

Barry is getting closer to the auditorium where the band is playing.
As he gets closer, the music is louder.

A wrestler and an accountant bumped into each other at the county fair. The wrestler challenged the accountant to a ball throwing contest. The accountant wasn't very strong. The wrestler was very strong.
the wrestler threw the ball further.

Bill and Dan both throw a rock.
If Bill throws the rock farther than Dan is Dan weaker.

Harry learned that glass is smoother than tile while rolling his beach ball over it.
The beach ball will travel further on glass.

Rolling a tennis ball over a court makes it become less hot then rolling it over the grass.
This means that the court.

Flash the superhero is the fastest man in the world. He races a bear.
Who wins this race? Flash.

Abe was driving home in his car. He lived at the end of a gravel drive. The car generated more heat when he was driving on the gravel than when he drove on the roadway.
This is because the gravel drive has more friction.

Dan went ice skating. The skates generated very little heat on the ice, but when he tried to slide over the wooden floor they did generate some.
This is because the ice is smoother.

Jeff determined that moving his boxing glove across a tabletop created lower friction then when he moved it across his bedroom floor.
This means that the boxing glove will travel faster over the tabletop.

Peter has been not feeling well and has been laying in bed all week.
Clark just got done hiking 10 miles. Who is sweating more? Clark.

Damian just got a new dune buggy and wants to test it out. He can either test it on the main road, which has little friction, or this backyard, which has a lot of friction.
If he wants to go as fast as possible, where should he test it? main road.

Sarah had to apply more pressure on her car's accelerator after turning off the highway onto the side road.
She deduced this was because the rougher side road caused more friction.

Steve and Job decided to have a contest to see who can throw things further. Steve throws a teddy bear, and it goes 3 meters. He then throws a bowling ball, and it goes 2 meters. Job takes his turn, and his teddy bear throw goes 4 meters and his bowling ball toss goes 3 meters.
Job tells Steve he's been working out. Job is stronger.

Adam has always wanted to dunk a basketball. He learns that the moon is much less massive than the Earth.
Adam will find it more difficult to leap high enough to make a dunk on the body that has more gravitational pull, which is the Earth.

Milo experienced more friction pulling his bandaid off of hair compared to pulling it off of skin.
He realized that the bandaid moved slower when pulling it off of hair.

The fish glided quicker through the water than the jello
because the water is smoother.

Louis drops a battery in the sandbox and the battery doesn't roll very far.
However, when Louis drops the battery on the sidewalk, the marble rolls about ten feet forward. The sandbox has more resistance.

A rudder gets hotter in the ocean compared to the lake.
This means the ocean has more friction

Jane goes out of her house and starts walking away from it.
After walking 500 feet, the house will look smaller.

Two helicopters are flying overhead. They're the same make and model.
The lights on one appear much brighter than the other. That's because it's closer.

Kyle is doing sit-ups in the morning, and at night, he naps.
The time of day when Kyle will perspire the most is morning.

Jenny figured out that she could slide her Barbie a greater distance inside of her doll house than inside of her dog house.
The dog house has more friction

Jill found that her mug had a more silky glide when moved across the kitchen counter versus doing the same thing across the office desk.
Clearly there was considerably less friction on the kitchen counter.

Ken wants to get a toy for his pet puppy. The puppy usually breaks all the toys Ken buys it.
Ken should look for a toy that is more flexible.

When packaging so mething plastic is a better choice than glass because plastic is more flexible
and therefore less breakable.

A steel ball has a greater mass then a pebble.
Which object has a stronger gravitational field? steel ball.

Debbie was exercising with a giant exercise ball. It rolled out from under her and rolled on the frictionless gym floor. She retrieved it and started again, but this time it rolled onto a rough rubber mat.
Which surface was smoother? gym flo.

The per so n was sitting inside their house listening to music and couldn 't hear the car outside
because they were closer to the speaker.

Jay was skating on the cement, but when he got to the grass he slowed down to a stop.
This is because grass has higher friction.

Tim prepared dinner for the whole family. He plates the food for the family on nice porcelain and paper plates.
If Tim would drop the plates which one would not break? paper plate wont break.

A cheetah is faster than a dog so
it will take less time.

Ron's bike goes faster on a clear road than it does on a muddy road.
This is because the muddy road has greater resistance.

Mike was playing a game with dog. He rolled treats across the floor and had the dog chase them. When he rolled a treat across his garage floor is seemed roll smoothly, but when he rolled it across his bedroom floor it bounced and stopped quickly.
This means that his bedroom floor makes the dog treat heat up more

Helen can slide her pillow faster across her floor then across her bed.
This means that her bed is the lumpier of the two surfaces

There was a train horn that was extremely loud when it was close by but then when it was farther away
it was quieter.

James is a submarine operator who knows that the pacific ocean isn't as rough as the atlantic ocean. The atlantic ocean has more friction.
Which ocean can he drive his submarine quicker in? pacific ocean.

Meg is taking her jeep out today. She drives for a while on a dirt road and can go pretty fast. Then she has to drive through a swamp, and has to go very slowly.
The swamp made her slow down because it had more resistance.

Lucy could see smoke in the distance. She heard a fire engine's siren and it sounded loud. Then she heard the sirens from a police car, but the sound was much harder to hear.
Which was closer to Lucy? the fire engine.

A truck was doing several test runs on a race track fitted with a sprinkler system on one end of the track to wet the asphalt. The tires of the truck were much warmer before getting to the wet part of the track.
That means that friction was higher on the dry part of the track.

A little boy rolls two of his rubber balls down the hallway. The red ball stops before the blue one does.
Which one rolled the furthest? blue ball.

Billy pushed the Tonka truck on the kitchen table and wood floor.
The truck flew across the table, but went slower across the floor because wood flo has more friction.

A karate champion is breaking boards. He has two boards left to break. A thin piece of plywood and a thick piece.
Which board will be easier to break? Thin.

Mike's belt is more flexible then his book.
Which item is less likely to break when he bends it? belt.

Two kids are chatting across the playground. They are harder to hear than the group of kids chatting right next to you.
Why is that? They are farther away.

Milo is going sledding. First he sleds down a muddy hill, and gets stuck. Then he sleds down a snowy hill, and quickly rushes down it.
The reason that Milo went fast on the snowy hill is because the muddy hill had more resistance.

Tim was playing around with his sled and noticed that it slid faster on the smoother surface than on the rougher one.
The sled slid faster on the ice.

A nerd and a jock each had a tennis ball. The nerd through his ball, and it went only a couple feet. The jock threw his ball and it went so far away it couldn't be seen any more.
Who was able to throw their ball farther? the jock through his ball farther.

Rolling an apple along a swept path is easy, but rolling one along a dusty path is hard.
This means the skin of the apple with get a lot less hot over the swept path.

When hair is healthy the strands are thicker than when they are damaged.
and therefore they are stronger.

Tim discovered that his tray is smoother than his floor by rolling his last bean across the two surfaces.
This means that rolling is bean over flo will force it to travel more slowly

A billiard ball has a greater mass then a basketball.
Which ball has a stronger field of gravity? billiard ball.

A pill gets a lot hotter rolling around inside a jar compared to rolling around inside a bottle.
This means the pill can roll a greater overall distance in the bottle.

Mary learned that her sheet was smoother than her pillow by rolling her marble over the two items.
She also learned that the sheet has less resistance

Maria decided to take her child to the park. She put her child in the stroller and went for a walk. Maria realized she was tired of pushing the stroller on grass after a much shorter distance than when she pushed the stroller on dirt.
Maria then figured out that she could push the stroller for a longer distance on the dirt paths because there was less friction.

Kate runs around a track for 10 minutes and John walks around a track for 10 minutes.
Who will produce less sweat? John.

Brett is driving a truck around a dirt track. The dirt track has more friction than when Brett drives the same truck on the road.
What will make more heat? the truck on the dirt track.

A trainer watched his horse run each day. The horse was able to get to top speed more quickly when no one was riding him than when there was someone riding him.
This is because the horse had less weight to move when it had no rider.

If John sees two identical street lights that are at a distance of one mile and one half of a mile from him. which one will appear brighter
Street light that is half a mile away.

Bill took two Eggo waffles out of the freezer. He put one on a plate, and snapped the other in half! When the one on the plate had defrosted, he tried snapping that one, but it just bent and stayed together.
That's because a thawed Eggo waffle is more flexible.

Jean rolls her ball across the wood floor inside onto the dirt floor outside.
The ball rolls faster on the wood floor because it has less friction.

As the car drove away it seemed smaller than when
it was nearby

Dan drives a tank down a rocky path and down a concrete road. Dan sees that he can go ten miles in ten minutes on the concrete road, but only five miles in ten minutes on the rocky path.
This is because the rocky path has more friction.

Marlo weighs less than his friend Dan.
The person which has less mass is likely Marlo.

A football travels slower over a football field then in a backyard.
This means the football experiences more friction in the football field.

Jane and Ziggy are playing volleyball. Ziggy is having a hard time getting the ball over the net.
Ziggy is likely to have? Broken wrist.

Santana drops a penny in a parking lot and it rolls far away. She drops another penny on a golf course and it doesn't roll anywhere.
The golf course has more resistance.

Gabriel is working on cleaning up his apartment.
He is moving items and drops two of them; a cardboard box and a ceramic dish. Which one breaks? ceramic dish.

The soldier knows that sand pits are more rugged then grassy hills.
This means that when he rolls his grenade down the grassy hill it will tumble a greater distance compared to the other surface

When Bob sat next to the lamp
it seemed much brighter than when he was across the room.

Kate figured out that her cake has more resistance then her pie when she pushed a spoon through both foods.
Kate's spoon will get hotter pushing through cake.

Jim hops in his boat beneath the lighthouse in the middle of the night. He sails a mile out, across the bay.
The beam from the lighthouse is more dim when Jim is right below the lighthouse.

Adam's mother and grandmother are battling it out to see who makes the best peanut brittle. His mother's is thick and tough, difficult to snap off. His grandmother's is more narrow, and easier to snap off.
The least resilient of the two will be His grandmother's peanut brittle.

A bus left the station fully loaded. The next day after the driver drive to the next town with an empty bus.
Which bus would have gotten to 50mph faster? Empty bus.

Sean needs a shelter for camping.
He chooses a canvas tarp over plastic sheeting because the sheeting is more likely to break.

James can ride his sled a greater distance over dry snow then over wet snow.
This means the wet snow is more rough

Harry knows his kitchen floor is rougher then his pantry floor.
This means that if he drops some canned vegetables on the kitchen flo they will experience more friction

Melissa is playing outside in the evening when the street lights go on. From where she is, she can see two street lights. One is nearby and the other is farther away down the street.
Which appears dimmer? far away street light.

A sapling and an older tree are standing in a forest. The older tree's trunk is wider than the sapling's trunk.
In a windstorm, which will stand up longer? older tree.

Erika is trying to get a paper plane to fly faster and further. She makes one that is heavy, and one that is very light.
Which will go faster? light plane.

A bathroom counter isn't as rough as a kitchen counter.
Which surface will cause a tape ball to get hotter when rolled across it? kitchen counter.

Shooting a cannon
so unds louder then shooting a rifle if the cannon is nearer then the rifle.

Sue noticed that when she flipped her notepad up and down in the air, it really bent a lot, but her iPad didn't distort at all. As she as holding both, she tripped and fell, sending both at a high speed towards a brick wall.
Which is more likely to break? the iPad.

A boy slid in the mud. after walking across the grass yard with no problem. Which had more resistance
grass.

Kim is playing outside. Her mother yells for her to come inside.
Kim notices that when she is closer to home, her mother sounds louder.

Pete throws a ball that travels more distant and yet it appears tinier
How much appear tinier?.

The less flexible of the two is glass leads to
it being likely to shatter

A black hole is smaller in size than the sun.
Which will have the strongest gravity? Black hole.

A lemon rolls faster in a fruit orchard then in a truck bed.
This means the lemon will roll a greater distance in the fruit orchard.

Sand is less rough then gravel.
A skateboard wheel rolling over sand will become less hot over time

John notices when he rides his bike on the grass, there is more friction than when he rides on the sidewalk.
That's because the sidewalk is smoother.

A ball is rolled over a leafy lawn and moves about five feet. The ball is rolled on concrete and moves about twenty feet.
The ball didn't go very far on the leafy lawn because it had more friction.

Gabriel was playing hockey. He hit the puck and it slid quickly on the ice, then moved off the ice onto a tile floor and moved slower.
Which surface is flatter? ice.

Silas rolls his tennis ball on a blue lane and the ball rolls very fast. The ball rolls much more slowly on the green lane.
The ball will be warmer after rolling on the green lane.

Mike discovered that his cotton ball encountered lower resistance rolling over a lawn chair than rolling over a bed.
This means his cotton ball got hotter rolling over bed.

Simon was using his sword to cut up some food when he noticed that more heat was generated when he cut a watermelon then when he cut a piece of cheese.
He decided that the cheese had more friction

I could see the headlights of the driver behind me however once he got closer he seemed to blind me with the light.
Did the light appear brighter when it got closer Yes.

Josh is in a parking lot near the beach. He decides to drive his car across the sand. The car's tires heat up more when he is driving over the sand.
This is because the sand has more resistance.

Little Jimmy found that he could fly his new kite much higher when the air was clear rather than when there was fog.
This means that the air has more resistance

Milo is a professional drag racer. He practices all the time in different situations. He knows that he can drive his drag racer at much higher rates of speed when on a track compared to when he is in an alley.
This means that the drag racer experiences less of a increase in temperature when racing on which surface: track.

Peter is buying toys for his young children.
He doesn't want the kids to break the toys, so he should buy toys that are more flexible.

Sally's kite can move a greater distance through air rather than through her pool.
This means her air has less friction

Harold's jet ski travels less quickly through choppy water compared to calm water.
The jet ski will ultimately cover a greater distance over calm water.

A sleigh will slide a greater distance over a rooftop then over cold ground.
This means the cold ground is more rough

Dan sees a dog down the street, and isn't worried, because it looks small.
However, the dog approaches Dan, and he is suddenly fearful, since the dog is clearly larger.

Three spelunkers are exploring a huge canyon. They are all far from one another. Henry can see the headlights from his friends, Betty and Dave. Betty's light appears to be brighter than Dave's.
Which of his friends is he closer to? Betty.

Uranus has less mass than Jupiter so
it has weaker gravity.

It's easier to push a toy car across a wooden table than across the grass.
The tires of the toy car would get more warm when it is pushed over the grass.

Jeri noticed that the pool cue ball moves faster on the felt of the table than on the carpeted game room floor.
The cue ball moves faster on the felt surface because the felt has less resistance.

The poker table at the casino is less bumpy then the carpet.
This means that a poker chip sliding across the poker table will travel a greater distance before stopping

Sliding boots across a dry floor makes them heat up less then sliding them across a wet floor.
This means that the dry flo is smoother

Throwing a throwing spear through clear air feels smooth, while throwing it through bushes feels rough.
The throwing spear doesn't get as hot when thrown through the clear air.

Mike races a man running on his sports motorcycle.
Who will reach the finish line a quarter mile away first? Mike.

An astronaut glides through space, then lands on mars.
He moves slowly on the bumpy Mars surface. which means space is a smoother ride.

If an average adult throws a ball and an average toddler throws a ball. which ball will go the furthest
Ball thrown by adult.

A sports car weighs less then a truck.
Which vehicle can accelerate at a greater rate of speed? sports car.

Rick was driving a car and Carl was running beside it. They were being chased by zombies. Carl grabbed the door frame and thrust himself into the passenger seat, absolutely drenched in sweat.
That's because Carl was exercising more.

Mary's skiff is able to journey a much greater distance before refueling in the bay then in the open sea.
This means that the open sea is more rugged

A satellite is heading toward the moon to orbit and collect data. Near the moon there is an asteroid that is less than half the mass of the moon. The satellite is pulled past the asteroid and into the orbit of the moon due to the moon's much larger size.
This means that the moon.

Jeff is walking among some trees when he sees a playground in the distance.
Which would appear larger to him? trees.

Bill throws a boulder and a balloon.
The balloon falls much slower than the boulder meaning it weighs less.

Fred was driving past some Jersey barriers to the side of the road in New York City at night, when he noticed a bright orange light on the end one. It nearly blinded him as he drove by it, and it was minutes before he'd driven far enough away that it was only barely visible in his rear-view mirror.
The light was dimmest when he was further from it.

An ice cream truck is driving through a neighborhood.
As it approaches a house, it is loud, as it leaves the house it is quieter.

A beagle is running at the same time as a husky. Both are running for ten minutes in the same direction. The husky arrives at the destination first, and the beagle falls behind and stops.
The dog that went further was the husky.

Mary knows that when her nose is dry it offers more friction then when it is sweaty.
This means her glasses will slide down her face a lot quicker when her nose is sweaty.

A cowboy and a hippie were both walking to San Francisco, and because they were the same height, walked at the same pace. However, the cowboy had gotten up at dawn and started walking two hours before the hippie.
It's now noon, and the hippie has traveled less distance.

Two robins were flying south at the same velocity. The male robin stopped to rest on a tree after 2 miles and the female kept going and didn't stop to rest for another half a mile.
Which robin covered more distance? the female.

The slow tortoise and the fast hare decided to run from the school house to their home.
Who do you think to longer to get home Tortoise.

A per so n's fingers are thinner than their arm
so the fingers are weaker.

Sarah's groceries have been delivered. The grocery bags are being set outside her front door. Some potatoes spill out of one bag. The potatoes roll from the smooth concrete alcove to the sidewalk ten feet away. They roll onto the bumpy sidewalk.
Will the potatoes roll less than ten feet on the sidewalk?.

The lady pushed the shopping cart rapidly on the Kmart floor.
The cart went much slower in the parking lot because it had more resistance.

Timmy rolled his toy truck to figure out which surface was rougher.
He found that the toy truck rolled a much greater distance on the tile flo. The grass created more friction.

Young child plays with frozen meatball outside. The child rolls the meatball across the brick walkway and walks ten steps to get it. The child then rolls the meatball through the weedy garden and walks five steps to get it.
The surface that causes the meatball to struggle to move is the weedy garden.

Jupiter is massive, but still less massive than the sun.
Which has a stronger gravitational effect on the Earth Sun.

Todd was playing with a toy car. He noticed when he rolled it on the marble floor that it moved more easily than when he moved it across the carpet.
The car moved slower on the carpet.

A penguin flopping around on an iceberg has an easier time then one flopping around in a zoo.
This means the zoo will make the penguin's fins hotter

A magnet can slide a greater distance across a wooden plate then across a steel plate.
This means the magnet encounters less resistance over the wooden plate.

A plunger gets a lot hotter plunging through a clogged toilet then plunging through a clean toilet.
Which surface will let the plunger go a greater distance per push? clean toilet.

The class is outside for P. E. half the children have chosen to walk their 4 laps, while the other half run the same distance.
Which half will likely sweat more? Students who run.

The F-16 was much lighter than the jumbo jet so
it was faster accelerating.

The farmers tractor got caught up while going through the cornfield. but went right through the farml and because
it had less resistance.

Shane is dragging a box across the floor in his home. It's not hard, but when he gets to the rougher cement area outside, he has trouble.
This is because the wood flo has less resistance.

A flower experiences low friction when blowing across a clean lane and high friction when blowing across a dusty lane.
This means the flower will tumble at a higher rate of speed across the clean lane.

Two identical trucks prepare to race to go from zero to 45 miles per hour. One truck is empty and one truck is full of heavy furniture.
Which truck will win the race? Empty truck.

John and Ronan are both headed to the top of the mountain. John is a professional mountain climber and Ronan is a beginner.
Who makes it to the top of the mountain first? John.

A submarine chugs along slowly in an ice field compared to when it's floating in clear water.
This means the submarine's temperature increases more in the ice field.

Milo knows that a sandy bed feels more smooth than a rocky bed.
He thought about it, and decided that a river traveling over a sandy bed would heat the water up less

When Sheila, the new bus driver, started on her route, she noticed her bus was quick to get up to highway speeds.
After she'd picked up many passengers, though, she found it took longer to get to highway speed because her loaded bus was heavier.

A steel sheet is less flexible then a rubber sheet.
If you bend both objects, which is most likely to break in half? steel sheet.

After John threw an item into a black trash bag, he noticed the item had ripped a hole in the bag. The next day, he threw a similar item into a white trash bag, and noticed that it didn't tear a hole.
What trash bag is likely made of thicker material? white trash bag.

John is flying across the country in a plane. Janet is walking across town.
Who is likely to have gone further after an hour? John.

Sara closed her computer and absentmindedly pushed a paper towel roll across the plastic computer lid. Then she pushed the paper towel roll across a couch cushion.
She quickly realizes that the paper towel roll moves more easily on the plastic computer lid than it does on the couch cushion, which she concludes is because there is more friction on the couch cushion.

Even though Jupiter is larger than the moon. it appears smaller than the moon to a human being standing on the Earth
because Jupiter is further away from the Earth than the moon.

A tank is much heavier than a toy car.
Because of this the toy car will speed up faster than the tank.

John was walking down the driveway to check the mail.
As he got closer to the mailbox, what got smaller, house.

Dana needs some shoelaces for her running shoes and she wants to make sure they won't break. She has blue shoelaces that look flimsy and green shoelaces that look more bulky.
Which shoelaces would be more likely to snap? the blue shoelaces.

A hotdog can slide around faster on a paper plate then it can on a bbq grill.
This means the bbq grill is more rough

On day 1, Jeremy does 10 sets of jumping jacks, runs 3 miles, and lifts weights for 20 minutes. The next day, he does 1 set of jumping jacks and walks for 10 minutes.
On which day did he sweat less? the next day.

While playing with his dog, Talia notices that her dog's bone can travel with more speed when she passes it along the hardwood floor than when she passes it along the carpet.
If she slides the bone across across both surfaces with the same level of strength, which surface will allow it to travel further? hardwood flo.

A robot has a much stronger arm than a human. therefore
it can throw a ball longer distance.

A little boy was playing with a toy car. He was moving it across the carpet and also a table top. He noticed that it was easier to move the car on the table top.
This is because the table top has less friction.

Joe is unpacking from a big move and is pushing boxes full of stuff around his house. When he pushes boxes on his hardwood floors, he can just give them a shove they travel far on their own. When he pushes them on his carpet, he has to keep pushing, or else they will only travel a short distance.
On which surface do the boxes generate more heat? The carpet.

Bobby is walking in the park with his remote control car. He notices that there is more friction when he drives the car on the dirt trail than on the sidewalk.
The remote control car's tires will heat up more when they are on the dirt trail.

Milo knows that curly hair is rougher than straight hair.
Plunging his bobby pin into curly hair will make the bobby pin heat up more

Mike wanted to make a pine box that was strong, to hold all of his tools.
To make sure it's stronger should he use 1. 5 thick wood.

Henry takes his truck into town. He drives easily and smoothly on the main street, then pulls off onto a dirt trail.
The dirt trail causes Henry to go a lot slower when he drives because it has more resistance.

I skater zipped quickly across the ice rink floor but much slower on the tile because
it had more resistance.

A jackhammer and drill are both being used at a construction site.
If Jimbo is standing closer to the jackhammer, it will sound louder then the drill

Connor and John decide to see who can get from their house to the park fastest. Connor takes his tricycle and john takes his motor scooter.
Who would get there first? John.

Annabel rolls a pomegranate down two boards, one with knots and one without. When it rolls down the board without knots, it has less friction than when it rolls down the board with knots.
Which board is rougher? wood board with knots.

Katy noticed that riding her skateboard on a ramp created less resistance than riding it up a hill.
Riding her skateboard on hill creates more heat

Tim's ring rolled a lot further over his vanity than over his floor
Tim's vanity is smoother

Ada was playing kickball. She kicked a ball into the gravel and noticed it was warm when she picked it up. She kicked it again onto a grassy hill, but this time the ball wasn't very hot when she retrieved it.
In which surface did the ball travel the most? grassy hill.

Gary's limo seems to move a lot slower on a gravel road than on a paved road.
This means that the paved road has less friction

The crazy skateboarder slipped quickly down the skate ramp. but bumped along the park bench because
it had more friction.

Annie was playing with her dog outside. She noticed when she threw its ball along the gravel it moved much slower and didn't go as far as when she threw the ball along the wood floor in the house.
This is because the gravel has more friction.

Alex slid a coin along the counter to the bar tender. It moved really fast until it got to the rubber mat at the end of the bar. When it got to the rubber mat, it slowed down a lot.
This is because the rubber mat has more friction.

Kim learned that her finger is not as rough as her toe by slipping her ring over both digits.
The ring heated up less when she slipped it onto her finger.

A steel car weighs more then an aluminum car.
If both are racing, which will take longer to get up to top speed? steel car.

Jim rolled his pebble across a towel and a piece of paper. He then realized that the towel was quite a bit rougher in one direction than the paper was, and vice versa.
Does the towel generate more heat when the pebble is rolled across

The flooring people were used to tile that they could maneuver into place easily. The new tile didn't have the same kind of give that the old tile did, so they had to be more careful.
Which tile could be broken more easily? The new tile.

If Jimbo is lifting weights and Milo is sitting quietly. which per so n is sweating less
Milo.

When Dave was pushing the full wheelbarrow it was taking forever to get it going. but once it was empty he noticed that
it it was much faster to move.

Dave notice that when taking batting practice the baseball moves slower on the natural grass of the team's practice field than on the artificial grass of the stadium.
Which surface has more resistance? the natural grass.

A snowmobile is making its way down a dirt trail very slowly. When the snow builds up on the trail, the snowmobile speeds up.
The snowy trail let the snowmobile go faster because there was less resistance.

Rubbing your finger across a trackpad is very easy, but rubbing it across a piece of sandpaper results in high friction.
Which surface will let you rub your finger a greater distance? trackpad.

Joe is driving back to the city at night and is ten miles away.
When Joe gets closer to the city and is one mile away, he'll notice the lights will appear brighter.

When astronauts went to the moon they were able to jump around
because the moon has weaker gravity.

Dan rolls a beach ball on the sand and the ball moves forward five feet. Dan rolls his beach ball on some rocks and the ball only moves two feet.
There is less resistance on the rocks.

John swings a rubber hammer at a brick wall and a glass hammer at a brick wall.
Which hammer is more likely to break? Glass hammer.

Harry has always been stronger then Fred.
Which person can throw the greater distance? Harry.

A paintball rolling across a flower field doesn't get as hot as one rolling across a cactus field.
It then stands to reason that the cactus field is more rough

Scientists were sending course corrections to a satellite that had begun drifting away from Earth. As the satellite drifted away, light from it became less and less visible. The course corrections worked and the scientists saw that light from it became more easy to see.
This is because the less visible light meant the satellite was less distance from Earth.

A caboose experiences more friction uphill then downhill.
This means the caboose experiences more of a temperature increase when travelling uphill.

Harold learned in school that Uranus has a greater mass then Mercury.
This means that which planet emits stronger gravity? Uranus.

While at the arcade, Kathy tries rolling a pineapple across a pool table and an air hockey table. She notices that the air hockey table has lower friction and the pool table has higher friction.
When she rolls the pineapple on the pool table, it will move a shorter distance than on the air hockey table.

A plastic bottle rolling across a picnic table experiences low friction, while a plastic bottle rolling across a lawn experiences high friction.
Which surface will make the plastic bottle get hotter as it rolls across? lawn.

Jim's golf ball rolled across the putting green and instantly stopped in the s and trap because the s
and trap had more friction.

A chopstick has an easier time stabbing into sushi then into meat.
Which object will allow the chopstick to stab into it at a quicker rate of speed? sushi.

A ladybug and an ant are crawling on a picnic table. In 3 minutes the ladybug has gone farther than the ant.
Which was going at a higher velocity? the ladybug.

Mary slides a coin to her friend across the smooth surface of the table. Mary's friend tries to slide the coin back, but along the tablecloth that has a more textured surface.
There is less resistance on the table.

Rolling an earring across a closet floor is rough, but rolling it across a vanity top is smooth.
This means the earring can roll a greater distance over the vanity top.

Terry was playing with a bag of marbles. He put a marble on a wooden table and flicked it off. Then he put the marble on the rougher carpet and flicked it again.
The marble on the wooden table moved faster.

A stick of bamboo experiences low resistance when dragged across a pier and high resistance when dragged across a marsh.
This means the marsh will cause the bamboo to heat up more

Elliot weighs 20 pounds more than Leon.
Who has a bigger gravity pull? Elliot.

A runner is working harder than a walker.
so he will sweat more.

A computer mouse moves with ease on a smooth plastic mouse pad, whereas, on the flat wooden desk at times it sticks and does not work.
Which surface has more friction? wooden desk.

Emily was playing with her ball on the beach, and she noticed that it didn't roll too well over the sand. When she dropped it in the parking lot, though, it started rolling away rather quickly.
Did the ball move further when dropped on the parking lot?.

Sam stands 100 feet away from John and yells John's name. She moves to 100 yards away from John and yells his name.
At what point will Sam's voice sound less loud? 100 yards.

Tommy found that his new hoverboard was faster on the sidewalk
because there was less resistance.

A man stepped on a banana peel while walking to work. His foot moved much faster than expected and he fell.
This is because the peel has less friction than the sidewalk?

Bob likes to skip rocks across the lake. He skipped rocks on a calm day when the lake was smooth and on a windy day when the lake was choppy. He noticed that the rock encountered less friction on the smooth lake than the choppy lake.
Which lake would the rock skip farther on? The smooth lake.

Using a belt sander to sand wood encounters less friction then sanding concrete.
This means the surface of the wood is smoother

Bob and Tim just came home from the gym. Tim is sweating much more than Bob is.
That is because Tim exercised more than Bob.

I can travel faster in a car than in a bicycle
Which is slower bicycle.

Jim and Kelly took their kids to watch the fireworks show. They wanted to make sure their kids didn't experience loud sounds that might damage their hearing.
In order to do this where would the family stand and observe? in the back of the crowd.

Mary can roll her nickel faster over a tray compared to over the ground.
She then realized that the tray has less friction

A leaf skidding onto a dirty porch gets a lot hotter then one skidding onto a clean porch.
Which surface will allow the leaf to skid at a higher rate of speed? clean porch.

A person is shouting very loudly.
The person can be heard easily when in the same house, but when leaving the neighborhood is less loud.

Cary just learned that a sand pit is rougher than a fairway.
After rolling his golf ball along both, he soon decided that the golf ball generated a lot less heat over the fairway.

The average NFL quarterback is 6'4. The average middle school girl is 5'3.
Who can throw a football longer? QB.

Mindy drives her truck through the gravel parking lot and down her icy driveway.
The truck moves more slowly on the gravel parking lot because there is more friction.

Two Amish couples are getting ready to leave the grocery store. They load their groceries into each one of their carts. Each cart has one horse pulling it and they are equally strong. Horse one has to carry 10 pounds more food than Horse 2.
Which one will be slower to accelerate? horse one.

Michelle is riding a bicycle on a course that takes her over both limestone and asphalt. She notices that she goes faster on the asphalt than she does on the limestone.
She knows this is because the asphalt has a smoother texture.

Tim found that his carriage got hotter after travelling through snow rather than through dirt.
He than decided that snow was rougher

Dennis was a star athlete and his size and strength usually made him a winner. But when Kenny challenged him to a foot race, Dennis was hesitant because track was never his strong suit. At the starting line, skinny Kenny took off like a shot but beefy Dennis had a slower, more lumbering start, and Kenny won easily.
Dennis started more slowly than Kenny because Dennis was so much beefier than Kenny was.

Nate rolls a car tire over an asphalt driveway, then over a rocky path.
He sees that the tire moves faster over than the asphalt than it does over the rocky path, because the smoother surface is the asphalt.

A cloud in the sky appears larger than the sun.
Is that because the cloud is near.

Kevin rides his bike to the beach. He pedals really easily on the road, but has trouble pedaling on the sand.
The bike's tires heat up more over the sand.

Jenni is cutting some paper with her new scissors. She can feel with her hand that the piece of notebook paper is much less thick than the piece of construction paper.
This means that the notebook paper will be easier to cut.

Mark can throw his lawn dart much further into soft dirt than into packed sand.
This means that the soft dirt is smoother

A baseball becomes less hot rolling over the infield compared to the outfield.
This means that the infield is smoother then the outfield

The shovel heats up more driving it into pea gravel then when it is driven into wet sand.
This means that the pea gravel is more rugged

Timmy plays with his shiny new marble and observes that it requires more effort to make the marble roll across the brown carpet than it does for the marble to roll the same distance across the granite kitchen countertop.
He concludes that the brown carpet has more friction.

Sally learned that sliding her rolling pin across her wooden table allowed it to travel quicker then sliding it across her area rug while she was playing yesterday.
The area rug has more friction

Dave was rolling an amp and Taylor was rolling a small guitar case with wheels.
They both started rolling at the same time, but 5 minutes later, Taylor was well ahead of Dave, because the amp was slower than the guitar case.

If a skater rides quicker on a half pipe and slower in a skate park
this means that the half pipe is smoother

Allison and Debra are each competing in a Karate tournament. Allison is a trained athlete and extremely flexible. Debra is an amateur and is not flexible at all.
Who is more likely to pull something during the high kick portion of the event? Debra.

A golf ball has a smaller mass then a baseball.
Which item has a weaker gravitational field? golf ball.

Neighbors Calvin and Debra could both see the forest fire from their homes. Debra watched with eyes wide and unblinking, but Calvin had to squint against its intensity.
Whose home is closer to the blaze? Calvin's home is closer.

Abigail moved her iron over the surface of a cotton dress shirt. She decided to also iron some wool socks, so she moved the iron over the surface of a wool sock. The iron was more slow in moving across the sock than it was in moving across the shirt.
It was easy for Abigail to see that the surface that was smoother was the cotton shirt.

Two football players are doing some running after practice. The lineman is not nearly as fast as the running back.
Which player will cover less ground if they each run until a whistle blows? the lineman.

Tara is working out every Monday, and only on Mondays. The other days, she sleeps in, watches television and overeats.
Tara sweats the most Mondays.

Trish is walking towards a dim light that she sees through a dark forest.
As she approaches the light, it begins to get brighter.

A family has recently moved. Their new house is located a greater distance from the storm siren in town than their old house was.
In this situation, where is the storm siren more difficult to hear? their new house.

The rabb it accelerates faster than the rhinoceros because the rabb
it is lighter.

Mike was making a basket using various types of wood. He bent some thick wood and it didn't break, but when he bent some thin wood it snapped in half.
Which wood wasn't as strong? thin wood.

If a truck and motorcycle accelerate as fast as possible. which one will be the last to reach 40 miles per hour
Truck.

There was a race one day between a sports car and a steam engine and being that the sports car was faster
it took less time to complete the race.

Danny is 5 years-old and Susan is 16. Their mom calls them inside for lunch. They both start running at the same time.
Who would get to lunch first? Susan.

The marauders chased the fleeing girl into the forest. After a bracing pursuit, they had trapped her against a cliff. From 10 meters away, one marauder shot an arrow and the other shot his gun. The bullet tore through the girl's leg, bending her over, and the arrow flew past where her head had been.
That's because the bullet was faster.

A ship has become lost in a dense fog and sounds its fog horn to alert nearby ships of their endangerment. A ship miles away hears the faint sound of the horn, and closes the distance until the ship is within sight.
The foghorn rings in the crew's ears much more powerfully when their vessel is near the stranded ship.

Nicole is getting some gumballs from the gumball machine at the store. She drops two of the gumballs on the floor. One rolls on the smooth tile floor and the other rolls on the rougher welcome mat in the store.
The gumball on the welcome mat will move a smaller distance than the one on the tile floor.

Karsten was shaving one day. He noticed that his razor blade moved much more smoothly across his bald head than across his stubbled face.
This means Karsten's bald head was smoother.

Minnie works at a restaurant.
The straws they are ordering are cracking, so Minnie starts to order some that are more flexible.

If a car and a pickup both travel at 60 mph. but the car stops before the pickup. which has travelled the lesser distance
car.

A served tennis ball goes fast on a grass court, but goes even faster on a clay court.
The court surface with the most friction is the grass court.

Ja so n used to work out daily. but hasn't worked out at all for the past six months. Ja
so n now produces less perspiration.

The stallion ran quickly through the grassl and but ran slowly through the thick forest because
it had way more resistance.

Ana and Ela are twins who are equally physically fit. Ana runs around a track twice as many times as Ela.
Who will have a lower amount of sweat on their body? Ela.

Milo's blender heats up more when making milkshakes compared to when he makes smoothies.
This means the blender experiences less resistance making smoothies.

The boys were racing their cars in the so apbox derby
and found that the cars that weighed less moved faster.

Doug travels from his house to a friend's house on his bicycle, and he moves much more quickly than when he makes the same trip on foot.
In which situation will Doug get to his friend's house sooner? On a bicycle.

Roger is playing with a toy car. He rolls it down a smooth wooden plank and then tries to roll the car across the carpet.
The car will move slower across the carpet.

Pluto has significantly less mass than Jupiter so
it also has weaker gravity.

Larry is at a picnic and he hears a mosquito buzzing. A few seconds later, he hears it again but it's much louder.
the second time the mosquito was closer to his ear.

Bailey went quickly down the snow slope on snow skis, but went slow and bumpy on dry soil.
The dry soil has higher resistance.

A dog ran away
and as he got farther away he started to appear smaller than when he was near

Mary learned that a cork floor has more resistance than a slip and slide while pushing her doll around one afternoon.
The doll moves faster over the slip and slide.

Elizabeth rolled an egg down a marble countertop in the kitchen. She then moved the egg to the knitted rug in the living room. She noticed that the egg moved faster on the countertop than on the rug.
On which surface was more heat generated? rug.

Melissa and Sharon stood in the yard with a fence a good distance away. Melissa had beaten Sharon in arm wrestling earlier.
Who will throw a rock that makes it over the fence? Melissa.

Sarah walked through the city and saw a tourist attraction she wanted to visit. She had several blocks to go to get to it, and the attraction looked very small. As she got close it though, it towered over her.
This is because when she was close to it the attraction looked much bigger.

When the rubber b and and the dry pasta were stretched the rubber b and was found to be more flexible and therefore
it was less breakable.

Jim wants to make a new flag to hang outside his house. The blue material is much thicker than the red material.
If Jim wants to have more certainty that the flag will not rip in the wind which material should he avoid? the red material.

Diana is bowling. She tries out two balls.
The lighter one speeds up faster than the bigger ball.

A space craft has had a collision with a meteorite that managed to destroy its engines. They are so far from home, the moon looks smaller to them than it would from Earth.
They are drifting through space, and are most likely to be pulled into the gravitational orbit of the sun because the sun has greater mass.

Chris is trying to get to church in a short amount of time.
To get there the soonest, Chris should drive.

If a so da bottle experiences less friction rolling on kitchen tile compared to rolling on bedroom tile
the surface of the kitchen tile.

A cat is standing further away from Jimbo then a mouse.
Which animal seems smaller to him? cat.

Driving a car to work takes less time then riding a bus.
Which vehicle moves at a greater rate of speed? car.

A water bottle experiences more resistance rolling across a blue chair then rolling across a desk.
This means the water bottle will have to move slower when rolling across the blue chair.

A tic tac rolling around in a cup has low friction, while a tic tac rolling around in a bowl has high friction.
Jim thought about this and finally decided that the tic tac rolling around in the bowl would get hotter

When the receipt slid across the sales counter it when a greater distance then when it slid across the floor.
This means the sales counter was the smoother of the two surfaces

Dean is driving his truck to work. He parked on his lawn. When pulling out of his lawn, his truck takes a lot of effort to move.
When Dean drives on the highway, his truck moves a longer distance and can go fast. The highway has less friction.

A monkey experiences low resistance running through the plain then running through the treetop.
This means that the monkey will get less hot running through the plain.

Kasey is pushing a stroller from her house to the store. She crosses her muddy yard and has to push the stroller very hard to make it move. When she pushes the stroller on the dry sidewalk, the stroller moves easily.
The muddy yard had more resistance than the dry sidewalk.

A python experiences less resistance slithering through the jungle then through the forest.
This means that the jungle is smoother

The cute baby rode across the floor much faster in his baby car on the cement than the bed.
because the bed has more resistance.

Adolph was in a trench with his buddies at the western front during WWI when he noticed a faint sound. He looked towards where it was coming from, and saw the unmistakable shadow of an incoming missile. The faint sound turned into a very high pitched squeal, and Adolph dived deep into his trench.
The missile was louder when it was close by.

A potato rolling on a cutting board experiences low resistance, while one rolling around on a wood floor experiences high resistance.
Which surface allows the potato to roll a greater distance? cutting board.

Jessie drops a feather and rock at the same time.
The feather takes longer to reach the ground because its gravity is weaker.

Matt knows that when he rolls his baseball across the infield it will roll a greater distance then when he rolls it across the outfield.
Which field will make the ball get hotter? outfield.

Jennifer is cooking dinner. She drops a can of beans on the tile floor, and it quickly rolls until it rolls across the kitchen rug and stops.
The can of beans stopped on the kitchen rug because the rug had more friction than the tile floor.

Kevin is a lot stronger then Mary.
Which person can throw a ball a greater distance? Kevin.

Tim is much stronger than Jeff.
As a result Tim can throw a football further than Jeff.

James learned that his drill bit would experience more friction when cutting through hard wood then through soft wood.
He soon realized that this meant his drill bit would become hotter if he drilled through hard wood.

Mark's truck stops faster on dry road than on wet road.
So the wet road has less resistance?.

Linda has two thin sticks. They have the same dimensions but one is made of rubber and the other is made of pine. She bent one of the sticks without a problem, but when she tried to bend the other one it broke.
Which stick broke? the pine stick.

Keith is pushing his son in a wagon.
After his son gets out, he is able to push the wagon faster.

Derek dropped a battery on the floor. It rolled away on the wood floor, but slowed down and stopped on the shag rug.
The battery rolled so fast on the wood floor because it had less friction.

Milo was throwing darts one day when he learned that his darts became less hot throwing them into a dart board compared to throwing them into plywood.
This meant that his darts moved further into the dart board.

Milo was flying his helicopter when he learned that it experienced more resistance through windy sky then through calm sky.
This means he was forced to fly less quickly through windy sky.

Dom found it much easier to roll the barrel on the smooth floor then while rolling it across a rocky yard.
Is this because the smooth floor creates less friction?.

Alice is playing ball with her young sister. One of them is having trouble throwing the ball far enough to be caught.
Which person is likely to have a harder time? Little Sister.

Manny poked his fork into both chicken and fish to find out which was smoother. He learned that chicken is rougher than fish.
This means that the chicken has more resistance

Stacey is playing with her toy truck in the sandbox and can't get the truck to roll very easily. When she pushes the truck on the grass lawn, the truck moves very quickly.
The grass lawn has less friction.

Jason notices that his dog's fur is smoother than the towel that he is drying it with.
When Jason passes his hand over the dog's fur there will be less friction.

Tom's paper plane heated up less when he flew it through the air compared to when he slid it over the table.
He learned that the air had less friction

The woman was able to easily fit into the the spandex pants, however she had a problem fitting the cotton pants.
Which pants were more flexible Spandex.

Mary learned recently that mahogany is rougher than birch.
This means that when she rubs her sandpaper over the mahogany or the more friction is experienced

In the night sky the stars appear dimmer than the moon
because the stars are farther.

A cantaloupe rolling around in a farmer's field experiences much less friction then one rolling around in the back of a transport truck.
Which surface can the cantaloupe roll a greater distance over? farmer's field.

Jen is rolling her purple ball in the house. The ball moves very fast across the wood floor, but doesn't go very far on the carpet.
The carpet has more resistance than the wood floor.

Ariana is bored in art class and starts rolling her pen on the table. First she rolls her pen on the shiny smooth table. Then she rolls her pen on a large sheet of textured canvas which is not smooth like the table.
Will the pen have rolled a longer distance on the table than on the canvas?

A tea bag can slide across a marble countertop much more rapidly then across a laminate countertop.
Which surface is providing more resistance to the tea bag? laminate countertop.

The Flash and The Hulk decide to race each other. The Flash is the fastest being in the galaxy. They agree to sprint for 1 min.
Who wins the race? The Flash.

Driving a bus in a school yard is very rough, but driving on a freeway isn't.
This means that driving a bus on the school yard will make the bus' tires heat up more

Ken played with his rugby ball in a rough parking lot and in a smoother play field.
He noticed that his ball would travel further on the play field.

Clark just brought an icicle in from outside and is trying to melt it by rubbing it against two different places in his house. The first place is his granite counter-top, which has no bumps or cracks in it. The second place is against the rough carpet in his living room.
Which surface will melt the ice faster? carpet.

A rabbit weighs less then a snake.
Which animal will accelerate faster? rabbit.

After he finished washing dishes, Bill threw a wet sponge at his brother across the room at his brother Ben, hitting him in the face. Ben picked up the sponge and threw it back at Bill, but it didn't reach Bill. It dropped to the floor a foot in front of Bill.
Which brother has less muscle strength in their arm? Ben.

A flower pot sliding across a floor is forced to travel at a lower rate of speed then one sliding across a ledge.
This means the flower pot can slide a greater distance across the ledge.

One dump trucks is full with iron pellets and a second dump truck of the same type is full of feathers. They decide to have a race.
Which dump truck can get going faster? the one with feathers.

The string was less flexible than the fishing line so
it was more breakable.

Nell observes that her Barbie goes faster on the plastic slide than on some slanted wood.
This is because the wood has higher friction.

Sandy is skating with her friends. It's a smooth ride. She gets on the grass and tries to move across on her skates. Sandy has trouble because of the rough surface.
Sandy moves slower when she is on the grass.

A wolf was running after a rabbit when he was forced to run through a river. He quickly determined that the river was rougher than the air.
This means that the river warmed more as the wolf passed through it

Caleb stands on the corner in front of a restaurant.
Down the road is a car dealership. Which appears larger? restaurant.

Laura and Sean are running on the tracks. Sean needs to stop running half way through and walk the rest.
Who ends one round around the track the fastest? Laura.

A piece of glass is much less flexible than a basketball so when they are both dropped
it is more breakable.

Tom builds posts for mailboxes. He notices the ones he makes of thin poles break easier.
That's because they are weaker.

Pete and Andre are playing tennis. Pete is trying to hit Andre's serve.
Does the tennis ball look larger in Andre's hand or near Pete's racket? Pete's Racket.

Nancy noticed her broom was not as effective on the textured brick patio as it was on her vinyl kitchen floor, as it wouldn't sweep smoothly.
This is because the patio has more friction.

Tom walks around wearing one glass shoe and one leather shoe.
Which shoe is more likely to break? Glass shoe.

A jet can fly much faster in the jet stream then in plain air.
This means the plain air is rougher

If a car and a train begin moving at the same time. which one can reach 50 miles per hour the fastest
Car.

Mary got a new skateboard for her birthday and tried it out around the house. She found that it rolled much smoother on her tile flo.
This is due to higher friction in the gravel.

A plane stays much cooler taxing through a hanger than taxing over a runway.
The plane will move a greater distance over hanger.

The factory makes a lot of noise. Troy walks past it coming home from school.
He notices that as he walks away from the factory, the noise drops.

A man wants to pull a car out of the mud with his truck. He has a blue chain that is larger in diameter than the orange chain he has.
If the man wants to be more certain the chain will have the strength to pull the car, he would choose which chain? the blue chain.

Timmy was shooting his gun, he noticed the bullets penetrated deeper into the hay bales than the dirt bank.
The dirt bank has more resistance?.

As the car pulled up to the driveway
it started to appear larger.

A donkey can run quickly on a farm and slowly in the wilderness.
This means the wilderness offers more resistance

Cutting bread with a bread knife creates a smooth cut, while cutting cake with a bread knife creates a rough cut.
This means that the bread has less resistance

Joe was the fastest runner in his school. Another student at his school, Larry, challenged him to race the length of the football field.
Which student made it in the least amount of time? Joe.

A per so n that is running will generally sweat more than a per
so n walking

Tom is watching and listening to a plane fly in the sky. Eventually, it flies right over his house.
When the plane was over Tom's house, was the plane louder.

Two cars are going to race each other. One driver puts just enough fuel into his car's tank to get through the race in order to keep the weight of his car low. The other driver fills his car's tank completely, which makes the car more heavy.
Which car will get up to full speed more quickly at the start of the race? car with nearly empty fuel tank.

A chef rolled his rolling pin a much greater distance on his granite countertop.
The carpet was not nearly as smooth as the countertop and created more friction.

Chris and Boon are running in a track event. Chris weighs more than Boon.
Who will be slower to speed up Chris.

Craig just got done walking home from school which was 3 miles.
Jamie took the bus home from school. Who would sweat more? Craig.

Suppose Flash who is the fastest superhero on the planet races Ironman in a 1 min all out sprint.
Who would win this race? Flash.

A hat can slide much quicker along a dressing table compared to a kitchen counter.
This means the dressing table has less friction

Rolling a basketball over a court creates a lot less warmth than rolling it over a gravel lot.
This means that the court has less resistance

Someone can hear very loud music being played. the speaker must be where
In the same room.

Why does the moon appear larger when it's a super moon
It's closer to earth.

Gary is talking to a friend outside his car. His friend slides him an envelope over the shiny top of his car. When Gary gets in his car, he slides the envelope across the leathery dashboard to the passenger side.
The envelope will make more heat when it is slid across the leather dashboard.

Mike and Dan left the bar at the exact same time, and and drove the exact same speed. Mike drove for 7 minutes more than Dan.
Who traveled the most distance? Mike.

Mary slid across the wet boat deck wearing her leather-soled slippers, while Sue wearing rubber-soled deck shoes walked with no problem.
Mary's shoes had less resistance.

Kate noticed that her surfboard can't travel as fast when she pushes it through sand rather than through the ocean.
This means that the ocean has less resistance

Lenno took his boogie board on bedrock and bumped around. while streetside was smooth sailing because
it had less resistance.

Violet was rolling an eggplant around the kitchen. She noticed that when she rolled it across the kitchen rug, the eggplant went slower than when she rolled it across the wooden cutting board.
She realized that this happened because which surface was smoother? cutting board.

Carol was rolling her ball on the bed. She noticed that the ball moved faster on the silk sheets than on the wool blanket.
This is because silk has less resistance.

The guy in gym shoes ran across the sidewalk quickly. but couldn't bare the hot coals because
it had more resistance.

As the spaceship flew closer to the sun
it grew brighter.

A capybara isn't as fast of a runner as an anteater.
If both animals make the same journey, which will get there sooner? anteater.

Elijah was enjoying a pleasant afternoon in the park, when he noticed an idiot proclaiming doom was nigh shouting in the middle of the park. Suddenly, a breeze took up, and the idiot was drowned out by the pleasant rustling of the leaves in the leafy tree beside him.
That's because the leafy tree was closer.

Evan is riding his bike. He notices that his bike tires get much more warm when he rides his bike in the sand than it does when he rides it on concrete.
The tires get hotter on sand because the sand has more friction.

Millie bends two tree branches. One is dry and is not as flexible as the other, which is wet and more bendable.
Which is more likely to break when she bends it? dry branch.

The elephant ran quickly through the hard dirt, until it reached quicksand.
It got stuck in the quicksand, which means hard dirt has less resistance.

Kevin took a plane from NY to Chicago while Esther took a plane from NY to LA which takes longer at the same speed. Who travelled further
Esther.

A tennis player can skid across a wet tennis court in his tennis shoes at a higher rate of speed then across a dry court.
Which court will allow him to skid a greater distance? wet court.

A rather fit man snatches the phone from a man who is overweight.
The obese man takes more time to break into a run due to having more body mass than the thief.

When Marky Mark's earphones were on the desk, he could only faintly hear music coming from them, but when he put them on his ears, he could clearly hear the music.
When were the earphones nearer to him? when they were on his ears.

Zachary likes to push his toy car around the house. His mom notices his car rolls slower on the carpet in the dining room than on the hardwood floor in the nursery.
Which surface has the greatest resistance? the dining room carpet.

Elpresador is knocking tree's over for a YouTube video. He approaches a thin tree and a very thick tree.
Which tree is less likely to go down? Thick Tree.

Both Mary and Jimbo were out working in a field digging a hole. Mary was working very hard, while Jimbo was just standing around leaning on his shovel.
Which person was producing more sweat? Mary.

Bill sees a large black tire and a small white tire.
The black tire is close.

The thread was much thinner than the wire rope so
it was weaker.

The new beach ball rolled fast across the sand, and even faster on the grass.
So the surface with the most resistance is the sand.

Missy and Johnny work together, They have to drive the same distance to work each day. Missy drives her car to work and Johnny takes the bus.
Who arrives at work faster? Missy.

Two blimps take off from the same airfield and fly at the same velocity once they reach altitude. The red blimp flies for a short time and lands at a nearby town, while the green blimp stays in flight longer and lands at the next town a longer distance away.
This means that the green blimp flew a greater distance.

A knife moves slower cutting through meat than through yogurt.
This means that the yogurt is less rough

A squirrel runs along a long tree branch. It ends at the top of a picket fence. The squirrel uses the same amount of energy but runs slower across the picket fence.
Does this happen because the picket fence has more ridges?.

Shooting a basketball into a cloth hoop makes the basketball heat up less then shooting it through a chain hoop.
This means the chain hoop has more resistance

George is walking to his classroom where the children are getting rowdy.
As he gets closer, the noise of the children is louder.

The child was much weaker than the adult
so when they played baseball they couldn't throw as far.

Dan went out skating. He put his skate on while sitting in the grass, then skated on the concrete. Dan noticed that he skated better and faster on the concrete.
He decided that there was greater resistance on the grass.

Shirley is watching comets shoot across the sky.
The comets are bright as they are closest to her, and when they start soaring away from her, they are dimmer.

Dave took his Prowler Off-road to get to the Daytona 500 RaceWay for a smoother ride because
it had less friction.

Dan noticed faint truck headlights, but they didn't concern him so he returned to trying to break into the dark house. Suddenly a much brighter pair of headlights startled him, this time from a car, and he ducked into the bushes.
Which vehicle was farther away from Dan? The truck was farther away.

Rhonda throws a baseball over the fence as hard as she can to her friend next door, Sally. Sally catches the ball. Sally then throws the ball back to Rhonda, as hard as she can, but the ball doesn't make it all the way to Rhonda.
Which girl has more strength in her arm? Rhonda.

Bill and Dan both throw a rock.
Dan throws it much farther than Bill meaning Dan is very buff.

Kate's pea experienced more resistance when she rolled it over her bowl than when she rolled it over her plate.
She decided that her bowl was more rough

A windy sky is much more rough then a calm sky.
This means that an umbrella cruising through a windy sky will heat up more

Tony has a beach ball that he loves to play with. He notices that the beach ball travels farther when he kicks it across the asphalt road than when he kicks it across the gravel road.
If he kicks it with the same force in each situation, which road is more smooth? asphalt.

Tim was cutting up cakes for the bake sale. It was harder for him to slice into the angel food cake than it was the chocolate cake.
Which cake is most likely to be thicker? angel food cake.

A tractor creates low friction when driving through a corn field and high friction when driving through a beet field.
The tractor gets much hotter driving through the beet field.

Josh is practicing on his skateboard. He can go pretty fast on the cement, but when he goes onto the grass he slows down a lot.
This is because the cement is smoother.

Kyle was driving his go kart around a dirt track. He noticed the tires heated up more on the dirt track than when he drove up and down the cement driveway at his house.
This is because the cement driveway has less friction.

Mary's wagon experiences low friction when she pulls it over the front yard, and higher friction when she pulls it over the back yard during play time.
Mary's wagon is heating up less when she pulls it over the front yard.

The tractor was much heavier than the car so
it wound up accelerating slower.

Ken is breaking things up to put in the trash. His next two items to break up are a pencil and a metal chair.
Ken is best able to break the pencil.

Sliding a stake across the carpet results in less friction then sliding it across the drapes.
Which surface will force the stake to travel slower? drapes.

A traveler wants to go between cities in Japan. She does some research and sees that a bullet train can go much faster than a car.
If she wants to spend less time in her trip from city to city, which should she choose? bullet train.

The space ship was much faster than the car
so when they both traveled for ten minutes the space ship went further.

Jason is Sam's younger brother. Sam works out and is an adult, but Jason is a child who sits around a lot.
When the two wrestle, the stronger sibling is always Sam.

You hold a candle in your hand and look at it. Then you see an identical candle in a neighbor's window across the street.
Which candle will look like it's giving off more light? The candle in your hand.

The spoon stirred the spaghetti quicker than the yogurt because
it has more resistance.

A bandana slides around in a rough manner on a furry neck and slides easily on a shaved neck.
This means the bandana will travel further on the shaved neck.

An orange experiences low resistance while rolling around on a laminate countertop, but high resistance rolling around inside a fruit bowl.
This means the orange is forced to roll around slower in the fruit bowl.

Steve is seeing which household items have more mass. Steve drops a refrigerator and a laundry basket off of his roof at the same time, seeing which will hit the ground first.
The item with more mass is the refrigerat.

A soda can experiences less resistance rolling around a vending machine compared to rolling around a fridge.
This means the vending machine is smoother

Rolling a gumball across a ceramic plate offers low resistance, while rolling it across a plastic plate offers high resistance.
This means the gumball will get hotter rolling across the plastic plate.

A car driving on a muddy road can only go forty miles every hour. The same car driving on an icy road can go fifty miles every hour.
The car can go faster on the icy road because it has less friction.

The private jet was much lighter than the jumbo jet so
it was faster accelerating.

Jamie has not done anything all day.
Dave on the other hand has been lifting weights. Who will sweat less? Jamie.

David heard the screams of a Zebra as it flesh was rend asunder by a pride of hungry lions. He started to run as fast as he could, for it seemed to be very close by him. After running a long time, the screams grew quieter.
That's because David was now far from the lion pride.

Mike's tortilla chips get hotter rattling around in his bag compared to when they rattle around inside of a box.
Which item has the smoothest sides? box.

The goalkeeper watched the kick off from the center line, the opposition passed the ball to their forward who dibbled it up the field, shot and scored.
Where would the ball appear larger to the goalkeeper as he picked it up out of his goal.

Manny and Kevin want to travel cross country. Manny takes a plane and Kevin takes a car.
Who crosses the country first? Manny.

Cody slid a coin across the counter to his friend. It fell on the carpet and stopped sliding almost immediately.
This is because the carpet has more friction.

Whle rearranging pictures, Debbie's mother has put on the floor a mirror and a painting that previously hung on the wall. Debbie throws an apricot across the surface of the mirror and the painting. The mirror is much smoother than the painting.
When Debbie rolls the apricot on the painting, there will be less heat produced than when she rolls it on the mirror.

A per so n that is walking will take more time to make a trip than a per
so n that is running

As the school bus drove off.
it looked like Johnny's mom drove shrank.

Sarah is making a planter out of an empty milk carton. She drills some holes in the milk carton so the soil will be able to drain water. The plastic bits that are drilled off are scattered on the floor. Then she moves to a clean area of the floor. She slides the empty milk carton across the floor to where she was before. The milk carton goes past everything else in the kitchen and continues over the plastic bits, but moves only a few feet over them.
Which part of the floor is harder to move an object across? the part with plastic bits.

Suppose a Quarterback throws a football and a boxer throws a punch. Which travels further
Football.

As the police siren got closer to Bob he noticed that
it got louder.

The African tour guide drove his Suzuki jeep faster through the grasslands than in the Serengeti jungle because
it had more resistance.

The ranger and the rustler both were riding horses that galloped at the same speed. The rustler left an hour before the ranger.
Who has traveled further? the rustler.

Amanda drops her gum ball on the ground and it rolls off the tile floor onto the dirt floor, then stops. The ball moved much faster on the tile floor.
The ball moved much more slowly on the dirt floor because there was more friction.

A blimp is forced to cruise at a lower rate of speed in cloudy air compared to clear air.
This means the clear air has less resistance

A trunk is more powerful than a stick
due to girth.

A skier tries out some new ski poles for her upcoming practice session. She finds that the black ski pole bends more easily and seems more springy than the silver ski pole.
Which of these poles is less likely to snap when the skier uses it in her session? black ski pole.

Jane heard a plane flying overhead but the sound was very faint. Twenty minutes later she heard another plane, but it was much louder this time.
That's probably because the second plane was closer.

Tory took her dog for a walk, and noticed that when she threw the ball for him, he had an easier time finding it on the rocky surfaces than smooth cement, because it didn't roll so fast.
Friction made the ball roll not as far?.

Matt is heavy, Dean is slim. Both are racing for several laps.
The person who gains speed slowest is likely Matt.

At night, Leo leaves the light on in the hallway.
When he walks to the hallway, the light gets brighter.

Tyler wants to play with his sled, but there is no snow on the ground, so he sleds down a grassy hill. His sled barely moves. That winter, Tyler takes his sled down a snowy hill, and his sled slides very quickly.
The snowy hill was better for sledding because it had less resistance.

A horse running through an open field experiences more friction then one running on a race track.
This means the horse can run at a greater rate of speed running on the race track.

The bones in Chris' hand are more flexible than the bones in his legs. Last week, he went to the hospital for a broken bone.
Was the bone most likely in their leg.

A per so n's femur is usually thicker than their pinky therefore
it is considered to be stronger.

Mike's go cart goes faster on the asphalt track than on the beach sand. because the s
and has more resistance.

Dean is playing a guitar as he walks around campus.
As he walks passed students, his guitar is loud, and as he starts to walk away while playing it is less loud.

If everything else is the same. which one would be more likely to break if you used it as scaffolding
A plastic ladder.

An average 25 year old man and an average 5 year old boy throw a baseball.
The 25 year old man throws the ball further because is he stronger.

Jay is trying to figure out new ways to ride his skateboard. It's much harder to push the board over the grass than on the wooden plank.
He will move much quicker on the wooden plank.

Larry is at the duck pond. He drops a stone and it falls quickly. Larry notices a tiny feather takes a long time to fall to the ground.
This is because it has weaker gravity.

Josephine drops her earring while getting ready.
It hits her crop-top shirt and slides slowly down to the hem, then slides quickly down the skin of her belly before she can catch it. Is her skin more smooth?.

Mark's semi-truck's tires get very hot traveling on the Interstate highway, but are cooler on city roads.
Which surface has the most friction the city road?.

Rod and Danny are running down the road. Danny is not as fast.
After five minutes, who has gone farther? Rod.

Gary is trying to bend different things.
He tries to bend a rubber mat and a wooden pencil. Which breaks first? wooden pencil.

Shawna and Lynn are on a tandem bicycle. Shawna is pedaling furiously, while Lynn is barely moving and letting Shawna do most of the work.
Which of the two will show perspiration stains on her shirt first? Shawna.

A rocket is much faster then an airplane.
If both fly for the same amount of time, which will fly the greater distance? rocket.

The ballerina could barely walk on the rocky ground. but glided across the stage because
it had less resistance.

David and Laura are playing Frisbee. David is not as strong as Laura is.
When they throw the Frisbee, who throws it a lesser distance? David.

The robot was much stronger than the human so
it could throw the ball further distances.

Tanner is playing with his toy jeep. He pushes the toy jeep across the shag carpet and the jeep barely moves. Then Tanner pushes the toy across the tile floor and it moves very quickly.
The toy jeep went faster on the tile floor because the tile floor has less resistance.

Mike noticed that rubbing his icepick on packed ice felt smoother then rubbing it on loose ice.
He then surmised that rubbing the icepick on packed ice created more heat

I could hear then boy that say close to me clear as day, however I could not hear the young lady sitting in the back of the room.
WHo am I able to hear louder Boy.

Clarice rolls a tennis ball across a tile floor and the ball rolls away quickly. Clarice then rolls the tennis ball across her muddy yard and the ball barely moves.
The surface with more resistance is the muddy yard.

Pete is running to work today, but tomorrow he is taking his car.
Pete will get to work faster tomorrow.

Jim's glasses are more flexible than Patty's. They ran into each other in the hall way, which knocked their glasses off.
One of the pairs break. Was it Patty's glasses.

Josh notices it's harder to lift his niece than his baby nephew.
His niece has a stronger pull of gravity

A student is asleep. The spider comes out at night to walk along the unhung clothes toward the bed. One night the spider takes time and effort to move its many legs over a scratchy, wool sweater. The second night the spider slides over a shiny, satin jacket.
The spider can reach the student sooner moving over the satin jacket because of the slippery surface.

A pebble sinks smoothly into a pond, but not into an ocean.
Which surface will the pebble plunge deeper into? pond.

Marco is talking to his friend, John. John is listening to Marco, and realizes that Marco's voice is now quite soft and difficult to hear.
He turns around and notices that Marco is hard to hear because Marco is a distance away.

A monkey is forced to move a lot slower in a zoo then in the wild.
This means the monkey can walk around a greater amount of steps in the wild.

Ryan races his car and needs to drive in different types of situations. Ryan drives around in a sandy desert, and then in an empty parking lot. After each drive, Ryan sees how warm his car got. Ryan notices that his car was much warmer after driving in the sand than it was after driving in the parking lot.
That is because the sand had more than the parking lot.

Ben is playing with his toy car in the kitchen. He pushes it on the counter and it speeds toward the sink. His mother tells him to go play in the living room. Ben tries to push the car along the carpet in the living room, but it doesn't go as fast.
This is because the carpet has more resistance.

Keith is playing with his marbles. Keith shoots the marble across the cement and it speeds by. When he shoots it across the sand, it putts at a slow speed.
The marble goes farther over the cement.

Even though she was accident prone, Emma thankfully never managed to break her glasses.
After a couple of close calls, she was relieved that her expensive new glasses were more flexible than her previous cheaper pairs.

If a bowling ball is pushed across a floor at the same time as a golf ball. which one will gain speed more quickly
the bowling ball.

Mark and Mike grew up together. Both men have always known that Mark is the stronger of the two.
If both go out onto a field and throw a baseball, which person will be able to toss it the greater distance? Mark.

A sled experiences very little resistance on the snow, but a lot of resistance on rocks.
The sled will travel further on the snow.

Thomas loved the sound of rain falling, so when there was a storm, he slept on the covered patio where he could hear the raindrops hit the cement walkways.
For Thomas, sleeping on the patio always made the sound of the rain louder.

A laptop slides faster across a dresser then across a desk.
This means the laptop heats up more when sliding over the desk.

Mike knows that his wheel has a rough ride over his dirt driveway and a smooth ride over his paved driveway.
This makes him realize that his wheel will become less hot riding over the paved driveway.

Billy the chef was peeling potatoes in the kitchen when he dropped two potatoes. One of the potato dropped on the stainless steel counter top and another potato dropped on a plastic cutting board. The plastic cutting board has tiny bumps on it, so the stainless steel counter top has a slicker surface.
Due to less resistance, the potato rolled farther on the stainless steel counter top.

A group of kids are playing in the snow on a winter day. They roll up some snow into a huge snowball and roll up some snow into a smaller snowball that is about half the size of the larger snowball. Some of the kids push the huge snowball and some of them push the smaller snowball.
Which snowball will take longer to get up to a fast speed? huge snowball.

Tina and Maria both take cruises.
Both ships travel at 35 mph, but Tina's cruise is an hour longer. Who went further? Tina.

If a tractor pulling a trailer that is loaded and an identical tractor that is pulling an empty trailer. After 15 seconds. which will be going a greater speed
Empty Trailer.

Venus has about half the mass of Neptune.
On which planet will an astronaut be able to jump the highest? Venus.

Kayla is riding her tricycle. She can go around the block in five minutes on the concrete sidewalk, but it takes her ten minutes to ride around the block on the grassy yard.
Kayla can go faster on the concrete sidewalk because it has less resistance.

Janna was playing with her softball and her bowling ball. She noted that the bowling ball had a greater mass than her softball.
Which ball had stronger gravity? bowling ball.

Milo's dog has smoother hair than his cat.
He was brushing both animals and found out that his brush moved faster through his dog's hair.

Baby Boo Boo crawled easier across the clean floor than the dirty floor.
The clean floor has more smoothness.

Diana and Dave are aboard the same train after getting on at the same station.
If Diana gets out of the train one stop before Dave, who traveled a shorter distance? Diana.

A spear can plunge quicker into loose dirt compared to packed dirt.
This means the spear experiences less friction plunging into the loose dirt.

Lillian just left the gym and she is now incredibly sweaty.
Which was she likely doing in the gym? Running on the treadmill.

Rolling a penny roll on a kitchen table is rather fluid, but rolling it on a kitchen floor is rather rugged.
This means the surface of the kitchen flo has more friction

Jake heard a lion roaring in the distance
and as he got closer to the lion the roar got louder.

Harold pulled his dogcart through a gravel path before travelling on a paved road while going to the store.
The paved road was much less rough then the gravel path, so he wondered whether the paved road had less friction

A plane is taxiing on the runway. The plane veers off into the grass. The plane slows down as it goes into the grass.
This is because there is more friction in the grass.

Carolyn was sleeping when a car pulled up next to her house blasting loud music. It stayed there for 2 minutes.
When it finally started to drive away, the music got quieter.

Patricia couldn't read in bed very well when she relied on her nighstand lamp, which didn't throw off much illumination from its fixed location. She solved that problem by buying a clip on light which attached directly to the book she was reading and illuminated it beautifully.
Which light source was closer to Patricia's book? The clip on light.

Two cars raced for exactly 5 minutes.
The red car was not as fast as the blue car, so the red car.

More heat is generated rubbing one's hands together than rubbing one's hands against a feather.
That's because more friction is created by rubbing one's hands together.

Ben was carrying a thick laptop. Jeff was carrying a thin laptop.
If both were dropped at the same height which laptop would most likely survive the fall? Thick Laptop.

A desk is less bumpy then a table.
Which surface will allow a computer to move faster when slid across it? desk.

A dog toy thrown across a grassy field travels at a lower rate of speed compared to one thrown across a dirt field.
Which field is the least rough? dirt field.

Jessica is playing baseball. She throws the ball and it rolls in the dirt path and into the outfield. The dirt has more resistance than the outfield.
Which surface has a more uniform surface? outfield.

Mike found out that air is smoother than water while playing with his yo-yo.
The yo-yo reached a greater rate of speed through air.

An asteroid is flying through space and is halfway between Saturn and one of its moons. The moon is very small in mass compared to Saturn.
Which body will be less likely to pull the asteroid into its orbit? moon of Saturn.

A leather glove sliding along a door knob doesn't experience as much friction as one sliding along a grab bar.
Which surface will let the glove slide a greater distance? door knob.

The lizard scurried quicker across the newspaper. than the dictionary
because the newspaper is more smooth.

Driving a stake into sand creates less heat than driving it into clay.
Which surface has less resistance, the sand.

Josh is mowing his parents' yard. He cruises around the yard at a good clip of speed. There is an area that has a bit of sand that slows him down.
This is because it is rougher on the sand.

Donna is working out on a local jogging path. Donna sprints at full speed for three minutes on the path then jogs at a more leisurely pace for another three minutes.
During which portion of her workout will Donna cover a smaller amount of ground? when she is jogging.

Ty is very heavy, but likes to run. Alan is very thin and likes to run.
The person who will reach a fast speed more quickly is likely Alan.

A fire truck is able to go faster than a car when it has its siren on so in the same amount of time
it goes further.

A table is less rough then a lap.
Which surface will cause a napkin to heat up more when slid across it? lap.

A space station has been abandoned and left to drift through space. At one point, the space station drifts halfway between a normal star and a black hole. The black hole is much more massive than is the normal star.
Which body will the space station drift away from because of that body's lower gravitational force? normal star.

Harry noticed that he got a much less smooth ride when travelling with his bicycle over sand than when travelling over pavement.
Riding his bicycle over pavement generates less heat

A gorilla gets less hot running through a zoo then running through a savannah.
This means the zoo has less resistance

Sue was a prima donna and hated to perspire, but her best friend Rhoda loved doing so because it made her feel alive.
When they went to the gym together, who was more likely to put in a long, tough workout? Rhoda.

The children were playing with a toy car in the house. The toy car ran smoothly on the tile counter, but on there was more heat generated when it ran on the carpet.
This is because the carpet has more resistance.

Ben was at the playground. He noticed when he rolled his ball across the sand that it moved slower than when he rolled it across a wooden plank.
This is because the wooden plank has less resistance.

If a per so n driving a Honda Civic leaves to go from Los Angeles to Denver at the same time as a per so n riding a horse. which will arrive in Denver first
car.

A grocery bag experiences more resistance sliding across a store floor then across a house floor.
Which floor will force the grocery bag to move slower across it? store flo.

Carl knows that his serving tray is smoother than his palm leaf.
This means that when he rolls his guava around on both surfaces it will be forced to travel at a lesser rate of speed on the palm leaf.

Tina and Wynona are both going the same speed down the highway. Tina drives ten more minutes than Wynona.
Will Tina have driven further.

Dean drops a grape on the floor tile floor and it rolls across the floor and across a rug. The grape slows down when it rolls on the rug.
The rug has more friction than the tile floor.

If you are going to bungee jump it is better to use a rubber cable than a steel cable because the steel cable is less flexible
and more breakable.

Millie is going to toss a ball for her dog. The dog tosses the ball to her first. Millie then tosses the ball for the dog.
The ball soars a greater distance when thrown by Millie.

George noticed that his windshield wipers moved more smoothly over his windshield when it was wet than when it was icy.
He decided that there is less friction on a wet windshield.

Mary can roll her pea much quicker on her plate then when it is in a bowl.
This means the bowl has more friction

A scooter experiences less friction cruising through the weeds then cruising through the gravel.
This means the scooter heats up a lot less when scooting through the weeds.

A wagon is slower then a car.
This means that the wagon will travel a shorter distance if they both move for the same amount of time.

The bodybuilder was able to throw a ball a farther distance than a child
because he was stronger.

Alex is playing with his toy car outside. He rolls the toy car across the parking lot and it zooms by. His mother tells him to move away from the parking lot so he goes to the back yard. Alex tries to roll the toy car, but it doesn't go as quickly.
That's because the grass has more friction.

To save money, the contractor stopped buying the costlier wall supports he was required to use and started using some cheaper ones instead. As a result, several roofs collapsed.
Which wall supports were thinner? The cheaper wall supports were thinner.

A tractor moves slower in the city compared to when it's driving over farmland.
The tractor gets hotter while driving in city.

Andre is heading to school for the day, and rides his bike. His bike moves slowly down the dirt path, but speeds up when he rides it on the paved street to the school.
The bike went faster on the paved street because it had less friction.

Veronica and her friends are walking to the haunted barn attraction on Halloween night. They see 2 glowing pumpkins in the distance, but the one on the left side of the road appears a lot more brilliant than the one on the right side of the road.
Which one will they reach first? the one on the left.

A knife encounters more friction cutting roast beef then cutting chicken.
This means the knife moves slower through the roast beef.

John and Kate went to a Crossfit class on Saturday, when they finished Kate noticed that John wasn't nearly as sweaty as everyone around him.
That was because John exercised less than others.

Bill and Dan both throw a basketball.
Bill doesnt throw nearly as far as Dan making him scrawny.

Shelia loves her new trampoline because it's so much more bouncy than her old one.
Which trampoline would have less danger of not bouncing back and instead snapping? new trampoline.

Jessica was preparing for her role in a movie by twirling her lasso and gyrating vigorously on the stage. A random cameraman filmed it all, rather relaxed as he occasionally sipped a cool drink and reclined in a chair directly in front of the air conditioner.
Who would be sweatier? Jessica.

Mary's bike encounters less resistance while riding on a paved driveway and higher resistance while riding on a gravel driveway.
She can ride her bike at a higher rate of speed on the paved driveway.

Jon shot a bullet from his gun into both water and air.
He decided that the friction of the air was much less than the friction of the water, especially after noticing that the bullet moved much quicker through the air.

Patrick is practicing doing the moonwalk. When he does the moonwalk on the gymnasium floor, he noticed that his feet are gliding on a smooth surface as opposed to when he does the moonwalk on a sandy beach.
The surface in which his feet move slower while doing the moonwalk is the sandy beach.

A rat and a mouse each set out walking from the high school to the hospital. The rat was speedier than the mouse.
Who took more time to arrive at the hospital? the mouse.

Anna is in a wood shop with her mom and aunt. Her mom and aunt are using circular saws to cut wood. Her mom is near her and her aunt is across the room.
Which saw will sound louder? nearer saw.

Joe obeys the law and always drives under the speed limit. John likes to live dangerously and always drives above the speed limit.
If Joe and John begin at the same origin and drive along the same path to the same destination, who will arrive second? Joe.

Allan pushes his toy car around outside. First he pushes it over a path paved with wood chips. After that, he pushes the car over the grass lawn. Allan moves the car more easily on the grass.
That is because there is less resistance on the grass.

Roy is trying to figure out which type of hockey field will allow him to make the longest hockey slapshot with his hockey puck. The roller hockey field is rough and made of asphalt while the ice hockey field is smooth and made of ice.
Which field will let him make a longer slapshot? ice hockey.

Mike's dryer made his lint ball heat up more when it rolled around on top of it then when the lint ball rolled around on his ironing board.
This means the lint ball rolled faster on the ironing board.

Tony was driving along the roadway. When he turned down the gravel road near his house, he noticed that the drive was rougher and he couldn't go as fast.
That's because because the gravel has more friction.

Rose's mom took Rose roller skating one night. Rose's mom didn't feel like skating so she sat and watched as Rose skated around the rink many times.
When Rose and her mom get in the car to ride home, whose seat will least need a towel to soak up sweat? Rose's mom's seat.

An airplane on the ground of an airport looks larger than an airplane in the air at the same airport why
It's closer on the ground.

If a ship moves slower then a plane. which vehicle will travel a greater distance if they both cruise for the same amount of time
plane.

A pleasure boat was cruising through a lake and was forced to slow down when it passed into a sandbar.
More heat was generated while the boat was moving through the sandbar.

Suzie always wondered what the sun would look like from space. She studied and eventually became an astronaut.
When she was in space, she noticed the sun was brighter.

Jenny was in the kitchen and accidentally knocked two cups off the counter. One was a pliable plastic cup and the other was a hard plastic cup. One of them cracked on the floor.
Which one cracked? the hard cup.

Morgan rides his bike into town and slowly takes a pebbled path. On the way back, he takes a paved path and the trip is much faster.
The trip is faster because the paved path had less friction.

Ben and Adam are following along with a workout video in their home. Ben keeps going while Adam decides to take a lunch break.
Because of this, it's more likely that Adam is sweating less than Ben.

Jack and Tom were golfing and they each had their own golf cart. They decided to race to the next hole.
Jack's cart was carrying an extra 400 pounds more than Tom's cart. Who got ahead first? Tom.

Both Sally and David are driving down the highway at the same speed. However, Sally only drove for ten minutes.
What is more likely? Sally traveled less distance.

Jake is riding his bike on the sidewalk. He sees that there is construction up ahead and he veers off into the mud. Jake moves slower when he is in the mud.
He was able to go further on the sidewalk.

Maria is rolling a beach ball at the park. She notices that when the ball rolls on the short grass, it rolls quicker than when the beach ball rolls on the tall grass.
This is because there is less friction on the Short grass.

Ellus rode his skateboard smoothly on the asphalt, and bumpier through the bed of roses.
The asphalt has more smoothness.

The baseball bat is much thicker than the toothpick.
Because of this the baseball bat is stronger than the toothpick.

James knows that matted hair isn't as smooth as sleek hair.
Which hair has more friction? matted hair.

A racecar can travel at a higher rate of speed on a track than in a city.
This means the racecar generates more heat over the city street.

Aiden is close to a bonfire. He walks away from it, into the woods at night.
When he looks back at the bonfire, the bonfire is dimmer.

Mama sat on a wet toilet seat left this way by her son and about slipped off. She noticed that she didn't slip on the textured cushioned seat.
This is because the cushioned seat had more friction than the uncovered seat?

Walter is walking away from the building that he works at.
When he gets to the corner, he realizes that his work building looks smaller than when he was standing in the front.

Mike's key encounters more resistance in his old lock than in his new lock.
This means that Mike's key will create more heat moving through the old lock.

A feather and a rock were thrown from the roof
the feather.

Joe was riding a motorbike. The motorbike generates more heat when he drives over the road-more than when he drives over the road.
This is because the mud is rougher.

A professional football player and a 12 year-old girl are seeing who can throw a football the farthest.
The football player threw it the furthest because he is stronger.

Paul hated being a passenger in the car when his wife Elaine was driving because she crawled along at a snail's pace. but he loved being a passenger when his friend Rex drove because Rex was a speed demon! On a recent shopping trip. the car Paul was in made it to the mall in record time
because he was riding with Rex.

Mike's dog was eating his kibble and scattering it everywhere. A piece of the kibble fell onto the floor and rolled much faster then when a piece fell into the dog food bowl.
This means the piece of kibble that fell onto the floor generated more heat then the piece that fell into the dog food bowl

A basketball rolling along a walnut floor has a silky journey, while one rolling across an apple wood floor has a rugged journey.
This means the walnut flo creates less friction

Shane is walking towards the airport at night. When he starts out on his journey, the night is dark all around him.
When Shane approaches the airport, the night around him is lit up.

Gavin is wanting to cross a creek to get home. There are two bridges close to each other and he sees that one has very solid boards making it up, while the other has some boards that are worn down to slivers.
Which boards are more likely to break if Gavin walks across them? worn boards.

Superman has superhuman strength and is the strongest being in the universe. Him and Spiderman are curious who can throw a tank the farthest.
Who wins this face off of superheroes? Superman.

A polar bear goes fast over a snow-packed surface, but slow over an icy surface.
The surface with the most friction is the snow-packed surface.

A bag of trash blows a little ways across the parking lot. Then it reaches a sidewalk.
The bag blows all the way away from the building. Which is less bumpy? sidewalk.

The ceiling fixture made it easier for Mindy to read her book, but the table lamp didn't help at all.
Which source of light was Mindy closer to, the ceiling fixture.

Karen was running late so she knew she should take the red bus instead of the blue one.
Which bus is more likely to be the express bus? The red bus.

Which per so n is more likely to perspire more rapidly in a cool environment? The running per
so n.

A forest is more smooth then a jungle.
This means a tiger can run a much greater distance across the forest.

A frying pan will produce more heat when sliding it over a dirt floor then when sliding it over a stovetop
The dirt flo is rougher

A puppy is barking in an apartment. The apartment neighbors can hear it very loudly, so they go for a walk away from the building.
The puppy's barking, when the neighbors leave the building, sounds softer.

When they got closer to the computer screen it appeared brighter than when
it was far away

The baby swam through water quickly in the bathtub and slower in the jello filled bathtub.
This is because it had more resistance.

Tim and Marty are on a basketball court getting some exercise. Marty walks around the perimeter of the court while Tim does sprints back and forth from end of the court to the other.
At the end of their session, who will have to wipe less perspiration off their face? Marty.

Jim bowled the ball down the lane instead of the floor.
because the Lane is more smooth.

Jerry gunned the engine of the jet boat and slid across the open water at break neck speeds. In a momment of of not paying attention he ran the jet boat onto a sandy beach which brought the boat to a abrupt halt within a few feet.
Jerry concluded from his accident that there is less friction on the jet boat on the open water.

The surface of a shopping mall is rougher than the surface of an auto lot.
A car carrier will travel further over the auto lot.

A girl noticed she could slide further while wearing her socks on the vinyl kitchen floor the morning after her mother waxed it then she could at the end of the week, when it had warn off.
This is because the waxed kitchen floor had less friction then when the wax was worn off.

A penguin can run faster then a panda.
If both animals run for 10 minutes, which will have gone the greater distance? penguin.

Mike figured out that throwing his toenail onto a wood floor made it bounce a greater distance than throwing it onto a carpet floor.
He then decided that the wood flo was more smooth

Billy and Cody are walking together. Cody gets tired and sits on a park bench.
When they leave the park together, who has walked farther? Billy.

Fred kicked his so ccer ball across a few different surfaces and noticed that a kicking it over a so ccer field seemed to generate less heat than kicking it over a stone path
stone path has more friction

A cutting board is put over a metal sink. Sarah cuts some vegetables on the cutting board. The cutting board slides around. She moves the cutting board onto a wet dish rag on the counter. Then she cuts more vegetables. The cutting board doesn't slide around.
Which one of these sticks to the cutting board more safely? wet dish rag.

Milo is able to ride his horse much faster through short grass then through tall grass.
This means that the short grass has less friction

A model car rolling across a desk is experiencing more friction then one rolling across a display case.
Which surface will give the model car a rougher ride? desk.

A hen is faster then a duck.
This means that the hen will travel a greater distance if they both run for the same amount of time

James had his left and right loudspeakers in two corners of his living room, each at the same volume. He was closer to the left loudspeaker.
Which loudspeaker could he hear more clearly? the left.

The train was much heavier when it had been loaded so
it was slower to accelerate.

Milo experimented to find out that soft butter was more smooth than hard butter by cutting both of them with his butter knife.
He then surmised that the hard butter offered more resistance

Kelly is rolling a beach ball around. She rolls it on some sand at the beach and it rolls very slowly. Then she rolls it on the sidewalk and the ball rolls quickly.
The ball rolls faster on the sidewalk because the sidewalk has lower friction.

At boot camp, Allison is put through vigorous physical activity each day in order to get her into shape. After several weeks, she drives home while awaiting deployment.
She notes that she perspired much more while at the boot camp because the physical strain of her body produced more body moisture.

A baseball bat can move further in grass then in mud.
This means the baseball bat heats up more in the mud.

A hen can run faster then a turkey.
If both run from the barn to the shed, which will get there sooner? hen.

Carol joined a gym and attended regularly for the first part of the year. However, Carol hurt her ankle last week and is now unable to attend.
Carol now perspires less than the first part of the year.

Karl is trying to light a match on his pant legs with very little success. He finds a piece of rough leather to strike the match against and the match lights up in no time.
Which surface provides more friction for heat? ROUGH LEATHER.

Melanie accidentally let her cat run out of the house while bringing in groceries. Melanie went back outside to catch the cat. The cat ran and jumped onto the hood of the car. Melanie noticed the cat glided quickly across the car hood but did not glide quickly on the grass beside the car.
Melanie decided the cat was able to quickly slide across the car hood but not on the grass because the grass has more resistance.

A finger can glide quite easily over a person's cheek. The same finger meets a lot of resistance when gliding over the same person's lips.
This shows The person's cheek is smoother than the person's lips.

Dan is a professional athlete. Joann is a middle-aged accountant.
If they were both to throw a football, who is more likely to throw it farther? Dan.

Kathy drove her car into a ditch. A man is trying to help her pull her car out of the ditch. He has two ropes he can use.
Which rope will be strong enough to pull out the car a thick metal rope.

Jane's rubber ball seemed to roll faster over smooth plywood than over rougher sand. The s
and has more friction

Marie sees a light overhead, that she figures is an airplane. The light is far away and dim, though, so she isn't sure.
However, she is eventually sure that it is actually an airplane when it flies overhead, so the light is brighter.

A sliding cat goes fast over a shiny surface, but slow over a dull surface.
The surface with the most friction is shiny.

A country was testing a new missile and gathering data about resistance under different conditions. They found out that the missile experienced low resistance when flying through light wind, and heavy resistance when flying through heavy wind.
This led them to believe that the missile experienced a smoother flight through light wind.

Tommy raced his older. faster brother to the pool
Who dove in first brother.

Jim and Bryan have both left their office and are driving down the highway at the same speed. However, Bryan lives closer to the office than Jim does.
Who travels the least distance? Bryan.

The little baby crawled quickly across the blanket. but went slowly through the grass because
it had more friction.

There's only one slice of cake left, and both Mary and her friend Amy want it! However, Mary's little sister has betrayed her, and is trying to sabotage Mary by clinging to her leg.
It takes Mary longer to get going to reach the cake because she's heavier than Amy with her sister on her leg.

A airline stops fast on a dry runway than a wet runway
because the dry runway has more friction.

Ahmed is playing with a golf ball and is gently rolling it across his wooden desk. The ball rolls quickly there, then falls to the carpeted floor where it slows down and stops.
The golf ball stopped on the carpeted floor because the floor had more friction.

The iRobot cleans the tiles faster than the plush carpet because
it has less friction.

Mary takes her skateboard on a green path and her skateboard moves easily and quickly. Then Mary skates on a blue path and has a hard time moving.
The green path has less friction.

A glass mirror is not as rough as a brick floor.
This means that rolling a gumball across the brick flo will make the gumball get hotter

Jerry rubbed his hands together quickly, while ruby was able to rub hers even faster.
Ferry had no gloves on but felt he'd created more heat while rubbing them Ruby in her slippery gloves.

Milo's chair experiences less resistance sliding on the bare floor then sliding on the floor mat in his office.
This makes him aware of the fact that his bare flo is more smooth

Mike's tank weighs much more than his motorcycle.
Which object takes longer to speed up? tank.

Two identical trucks drive by while you are in the slow lane.
The louder truck is likely in the fast lane.

Bob's car runs out of gas quicker because his car runs hotter when driving on a dirt road versus an asphalt road.
This is because the asphalt causes less friction than the dirt road?

Hercules is a giant of a man and on the disc tossing team for his school. Allison is a cheerleader.
Who can throw a disc further? Hercules.

Carter is riding his bike and wants to go fast. First he rides his bike on the grass in his yard, then he rides it in the street. Carter sees that his bike goes a lot faster when he's riding on the street.
This is because the street is smoother than the grass.

Maddy is playing with her new puppy and rolls a rubber ball for it. The rubber ball moves slowly over the grassy yard, but speeds up when it rolls onto the tile sidewalk.
The rubber ball sped up on the sidewalk because it had less resistance.

A rabbit creates less heat energy running through a wash then running through a desert.
This means the desert has more friction

Joe takes his sled outside to go down the hill.
If he wants to go fast, he should go on the ice because ice is smoother.

A so ftball goes faster on the infield than on the outfield
because the infield surface has less friction than the outfield.

Bill Gates and Lebron James are playing a game of basketball. Bill Gates is an old guy who doesn't work out, and Lebron James is a young sports adonis who trains daily.
Both stand at half court, but only one hits the backboard. Who? Lebron James.

A pebble plunging through a pond experiences high friction, while one rolling across ice experiences low friction.
This means the pond is more rough

Josh is working at a country club. He is returning a golf cart. As he drives along the dirt trail the golf cart's tires heat up more than they do on the parking lot.
That is because the dirt trail is bumpier.

Jasper is playing with a ball in his yard. His yard has two sides; a sandy yard side and a grassy yard side. The ball rolls better on the grassy yard side.
This is because the sandy yard side has more friction.

A glider and a bird are both cruising through the sky at the same rate of speed.
If the bird gets tired and lands before the glider, which will have travelled the least distance? bird.

As the motorcycle pulled away from Rick he realized that
it became quieter.

A comet approaches Earth, and will fly equidistant between the ISS and the moon.
Which of the two is large enough to provide the best hope of attracting the comet so that it avoid the Earth? The moon.

Jeff held his lantern in his hands while also noticing a lantern on his neighbor's front porch.
Which lantern would shine more light on Jeff? Jeff's lantern.

The inside of a milk truck has more friction then a fridge shelf.
This means that if you were to slide a milk jug across both surfaces the milk jug would reach a higher rate of speed on the fridge shelf.

Two regulation sized basketballs are in a field. One is white and one is orange. Sue sees them from the edge of the field, but it appears that the white one is smaller than the orange one.
Why? the orange one is much closer to Sue.

The Williams twins, Joe and Jim are playing hockey. Joe is getting really sweaty but Jim is barely perspiring.
Which of them is getting more of a work out? Joe.

Mike knows that his floor has less friction then his lap. An apple seed fell from the apple he was eating and rolled across his lap before falling to the floor and rolling around there.
Which surface did the apple seed roll slower on? lap.

A bike is ridden on a red lane and goes twenty feet in ten seconds. The bike is then ridden on a black lane and goes five feet in ten seconds.
The black lane has more resistance.

Henry rolled two balls down the slide at the park, a softball and a ping pong ball.
Which one reached the bottom first? the softball.

A truck driver realized that after he had dropped off his trailer that his truck was accelerating faster because
it was now lighter.

A giant asteroid has been captured by the Earth's gravitational pull and now the Earth has a second moon.
The light reflected off the new moon appears brighter than the light reflected off the old moon because the new moon is a shorter distance from Earth then the old moon.

Patty and Brant are both exercising at the gym. Patty is really determined to lose five pounds by the end of the month, so she exercises more than Brant does.
As a result Patty sweats more.

Jenny spun her hubcap on both a riverbed and a roof and determined that the roof was rougher than the riverbed.
She then wonder if the had less friction.

A raccoon moves slower through his burrow then in a treetop.
This means the treetop has less resistance

Bob sent a package via USPS and a package via UPS. The package he sent via UPS arrived first.
Which parcel service was slower USPS was slower.

Andy had 2 different exercise routines he liked to do, routine A and routine B. When he did routine A on Tuesdays and Fridays he barely sweated, but when he did routine B on Wednesdays and Sundays he got really sweaty.
He was getting more exercise doing routine B.

Matt discovered that clouds are not as rough as rain when he flew his kite through both.
His kite warmed up less in the clouds.

Jim learned that his garden is smooth while his driveway is rough by rolling a rock over them
The garden has less resistance

A bowling ball has more mass then a baseball.
Which item has stronger gravity? bowling ball.

Sean's cup heats up a great deal more when he slides it over a carpeted floor compared to when he slides it over a granite top.
This means that the carpeted flo has more friction

A star has a greater mass then a planet
This means the star.

Barry Bonds is a much bigger and stronger per so n that Aubrey Plaza
so he can throw a baseball further.

Jaden is right-handed and as a result his right arm is noticeably more powerful than his left arm.
If Jaden throws a baseball with each arm, the throw from which arm will cover less distance? his left arm.

Bill is out looking for his dog and runs into his friends bright flashlight.
In the distance he can see a spotlight that looks dim.

Cathy took her kite to the beach on a windy day. The kite looked as big as her head when it began rising in the sky, but as the wind took it very high she saw that it looked really small.
This is because the closer it was to her the more size it appeared to have.

Bob is sitting in front of his computer munching on crisps. Sue is running for her life as she's being chased by a bear.
Who will sweat less? Bob will sweat less.

Sandy's pencil gets hotter when she pushes it into clay then when she pushes it into mud.
This means that the clay is rougher

Micah is rolling a softball around in a paved parking lot and it rolls very easily. When he rolls his softball around in a dirt field, it rolls more slowly.
The dirt field offers more resistance than the paved parking lot.

Mike slid a butter ball across some toast and across some bread. The butter ball moved rather slow across the toast, but rather quickly across the bread.
This means the bread has less resistance

A rock and a snowball are rolled down a hill at the same speed. The rock gets stuck after 10 seconds of rolling.
The snowball rolls for 30 seconds. Which object rolled farther? Snowball.

Jake has two pairs of sunglasses.
The one that is more likely to break is the one that is less flexible.

A monkey in a tree reaches out and bends a small branch and it breaks. Then he grabs another branch and tries to break it but it just bends.
What is true? the second branch was more flexible.

Karen was playing football at the park. She threw the ball and it hit the ground, rolled on the field, and then rolled into a gravel playground. The ball generated more heat when it rolled over the gravel.
Which surface is more level? field.

Mike discovered that pavement had less friction than a grassy yard when riding his rollerblades spare time.
He moved faster over pavement.

A tiger walking around in a cave feels his paws heat up less then one walking around in a tunnel.
This means the tunnel is more rough.

Cobra the cat spits up hairballs a lot. He spit up a hairball on his scratching post and it rolled a rather far distance. He also spit up a hairball in his litter box, but it didn't roll very far at all.
The lint ball that was spit up in the litter box heated up more than the lint ball that was spit up on the scratching post

Bill and Dan both went to the gym to work out.
Coming out Bill is significantly less sweaty than Dan which means Bill worked out less.

As the bird flew further into the air. and away from the town
he became a Speck of dust.

Burt is a strong man. His nephew, Dave, is a skinny boy.
If they both throw a football, who will throw it further? Burt.

Sheila runs every day.
She ran one hour on Monday and two hours on Tuesday so she sweated more on Tuesday.

Eric is trying out his rollerblades. He puts them on on the grass lawn and has a hard time skating. When Eric skates on the sidewalk, he can go fast and it is easy.
The surface with the most resistance is the grass lawn.

Nick and Natalie are watching TV. Nick gets up and does jumping jacks for 20 min. Natalie does nothing.
Who ends up sweating more? Nick.

A bobcat ran very fast through sand, before reaching the Rocky Mountain.
He slowly scaled up the mountain because mountain has more resistance.

Adam put on his roller skates and found that he skated more slowly on grass than he did on the asphalt sidewalk.
because the smoother surface was the asphalt sidewalk.

A worker finds that a barrel rolls more easily across a metal truck bed than it does over so me gravel
which means there is more resistance on the gravel.

Tim's butter slides much faster on his dish than on his tray.
The surface of the dish is less restrictive

The plastic bowl is much more flexible than the glass bowl.
If both are dropped, which one is less likely to break? plastic bowl.

The little girl was weaker than the coach
so she couldn't throw as far.

Joe has a ball in his hand and throws it to his son on the other end of the backyard.
When his son catches the ball, it will look smaller to Joe.

Ben was driving his car. He accidentally went off the road into the mud. It was much harder to drive through the mud.
There was more heat generated from the car when Ben was driving in the mud.

Frank glided across the glass floor quicker than the dirt floor
because the glass floor is more smooth.

Tamara needs a new vaulting pole for her upcoming meet. She examines a red one and notices that it bends much more easily than a green one.
Which pole should she choose if she wants to lower the likelihood that the pole will snap? red vaulting pole.

A possum can run very quickly along the forest floor, but not so fast along the tree tops.
Which surface puts less resistance on the possum's paws? forest flo.

Harry is a professional gambler who likes to roll silver dollars for fun. He's rolled his silver dollar on all kinds of surfaces, and he knows that it rolls much more slowly over a kitchen table when compared to a card table.
This means that the silver dollar will roll longer before coming to a stop on the card table.

The unicycle was able to pick up more speed on the asphalt versus the beach s
and because the asphalt has lower resistance.

Rod was rolling a ball to his dog. He was able to roll the ball much farther on the cement than on the grass.
This is because the cement is smoother.

Contessa knows that a weedy lot is bumpier than a dirt lot. so when she drives her school bus over the dirt lot it will experience less resistance then when she drives
it over the weedy lot

Tim noticed that his cherry pit rolled slower on the lunchroom floor compared to when he rolled it on his lunch tray.
This means that the cherry pit heated up less when rolling over the lunch tray.

If you are sitting beside your car which object looks larger your car or the moon
Car.

The baseball team coach was considering both Ted and Roy for the right field position. He needed someone who could propel the ball all the way to the basemen and he knew Ted was more physically fit and possessed greater physical strength than Roy.
Who could likely throw the ball a further distance? Ted.

Evelyn lets go of a balloon and watches as it gets higher in the sky.
When will it have looked larger closer to Evelyn.

Due to its much weaker gravity, astronaut Kevin is thrilled to discover that he can jump much higher on the moon than he ever could when on Earth.
Judging from Kevin's exploits, which of the following is true? The moon has less mass.

Outside of Susie's window, her brother is mowing the grass. Down the street, the town's maintenance department is using a jackhammer to improve a section of the road.
Which noise will be more apparent to Susie, the lawn mower,.

Kaitlyn had a roll of tape and pushed it across the top of her metal freezer, then she pushed it across a floor mat. The roll of tape kept moving for a longer period of time on the metal freezer than it did on the floor mat.
This is because there was more friction on the floor mat.

Jason was sitting at the kitchen table waiting for his mother to come downstairs and help him with his homework. He grabbed a grape out of the fruit bowl in front of him and flicked it across the table. He then grabbed an orange and flicked the orange with the same force.
One of the fruits moved much more quickly across the table. It was the grape.

A dog can run faster then a person.
If both a dog and a person run in a field for the same amount of time, which will go the greater distance? dog.

Sally rides her bike down the gravel driveway and then down the concrete sidewalk. The bike goes faster on the sidewalk.
There is more resistance on the gravel driveway.

Mike's meatball rolled around on his plate at a pretty good rate of speed, but when it fell on the floor it rolled at a lesser rate of speed.
This means the plate is smoother

Sheryl realized after slipping in her bathtub for the fifth time, that she needed a rubber bath mat. She quit slipping.
This is because the bathmat had more friction than the bathtub alone.

A carrot gets less hot rolling over a dinner plate then rolling over a lunch plate.
This means that the carrot can travel further over the dinner plate.

An elephant has escaped from the zoo and is on a rampage through the streets of the city! Employees armed with tranquilizer guns find the elephant and take shots at its thick hide, while one stray dart hits a person right in the arm.
Who has more resilient protection against the darts? The elephant.

A boy was rolling his rubber ball in his driveway to see how far he could make it roll.
He found that it rolled smoother and further on the ice. The ice has lower friction.

If bill drops a rock onto a glass window and a rubber b and which one will not break
rubber band.

A car can go a longer distance in a short time over a brick road, but it takes a lot longer for the car to go that far on a rocky path.
The car goes faster on the brick road because the brick road has less resistance.

A wolf researcher in Yellowstone was listening to the howls of 2 wolf packs, wolf pack A and wolf pack B. She could hear the calls of wolf pack B much clearer than those of wolf pack A.
She was closer to wolf pack B.

Dana and her daughter are throwing a tennis ball in the yard. Dana's daughter's arm is undeveloped and small, while Dana's arm is fully developed and larger.
This means that the tennis ball will land a greater distance away when thrown by Dana.

A turtle is slower then a rabbit.
If both animals are racing, which one will travel less distance in 5 minutes? turtle.

Alison noticed that her car stops faster on dry pavement than on snowy pavement.
The resistance is lower on the snowy pavement?.

A car will move faster over a road than on clods of dirt
because clods of dirt are rougher.

Jim discovered that a dirt road is smoother than a desert when he drove his van over them.
The van got hotter driving over the desert.

Milo was target practicing at the shooting range when he noticed that his bullet traveled further into a paper target compared to a wood target.
This led him to realize that the wood target offered a rougher surface

Mike is an orange grower and he knows that his factory floor is smoother then his grove floor.
This means that when he rolls an orange across the grove flo will roll slower

It only took Lisa two hours to get to Las Vegas, despite the long distance.
Lisa must have traveled how? By Airplane.

Justin is racing his two birds; a sparrow and a canary. The sparrow weighs less than the canary.
The canary loses the race, since the sparrow was able to gain speed quickly.

When Rick saw the big cactus that was near him he thought it was massive. but as he got further away
it appeared smaller.

Susan wants to lose weight by exercising every day. She wants to either run up hill or walk on the treadmill today.
If she wants to sweat the least amount, she should walk on the treadmill.

Brenda and Shannon are working out at the gym. Brenda can't work out as hard as Shannon because she broke her foot.
Because of this Brenda is sweating less than Shannon.

I can easily break a stick however I cannot break a branch
Which is stronger Branch.

The contender is the boxing matching was sweating uncontrollably in the ring while the people in the stands watching enjoyed the cool breeze in the room
Who was sweating more Boxer.

Laura decided to try bungee jumping. She had a choice between a red bungee cord that was as big around as her arm and a yellow one that was about half that circumference.
If Laura wants more assurance that her cord won't break, she should choose the red bungee cord.

A valley is significantly rougher than a mountainside.
This means that lava rolling down which surface will reach a greater top speed? valley.

A train is approaching the station. As the train gets close, the light on the front is blindingly bright.
However, when the train was miles away, making its approach, the light was difficult to see.

A glass mirror is smoother than a stone slab.
This means that running a razor blade over the stone slab will create more heat

Sally's toy car has low resistance when she pushes it over a play mat, and high resistance when she pushes it over her bedroom floor.
This mean's that Sally's toy car will travel a longer distance over play mat.

Little Timmy got a new bike for his birthday and quickly learned that he had to ride it at reduced speed over the beach near his house compared to when he rode it in a parking lot.
This means that the parking lot has less friction

The moon has less mass than Earth therefore people felt lighter there because
it has weaker gravity.

Two shot putters, a 25 year-old man and an 18 year-old girl are seeing who can throw the furthest. The winner qualifies for the Olympics.
The man wins because he is Stronger.

A sandwich sliding across a lunch plate experiences less friction then one sliding across a breakfast plate.
Which plate will force the sandwich to slide at a lower rate of speed? breakfast plate.

Mary learned from sliding her doll across various surfaces that a wood floor is smoother then a rug.
This means that her doll slides slower over the rug.

Sue and Becky live together but want to go to the store separately.
If they leave the house at the same time, who will take longer to get to the store if Sue is driving her car and Becky is walking? Becky.

If I were to walk on the moon compared to Earth. I would float
because the moon has weaker gravity.

Jennifer is overweight, and spends a lot of time running. She is very slow to gain speed, though.
After a year of regular running, Jennifer is now quite light, and so she speeds up quickly.

I bought some smooth plastic furniture movers which let me push heavy furniture across my carpet on my own. I got tired of asking for help to rearrange the furniture, as before I bought these I couldn't do it alone.
This was because the furniture movers decreased friction?.

Neptune is one of the largest planets in the solar system.
Which object has stronger gravity? Neptune.

Fred notices that it is darker at the end of the hall, but seems to be bright near the light bulb.
That's because it is brighter near the light source.

Mars is much less massive than Jupiter so
it has weaker gravity.

Mary drops a marble on the dirt floor and it rolls very slowly and not very far. When Mary rolls the same marble on a tile floor, the marble rolls very far very quickly.
The marble had greater resistance on the dirt flo.

Jimbo's pen has a greater diameter then his pencil.
Which is more resistant to being snapped in two? pen.

The football coach wants to choose the person who can throw the ball the furthest to be on his team. Jon is stronger than Carl is.
Who will coach choose? Jon.

Maddie is studying planets. Saturn is enormous and heavy, Pluto is tiny and a dwarf.
The planet with the greater gravitational pull is Saturn.

Becky is dying some jeans in a bucket and she has to keep stirring them.
She thinks it's better to use a thick wooden stick than a thin one because the thin one is weaker.

Frank was dragging a heavy log across the yard. His twin brother Fred was dragging one that weighed only half as much.
When the work was through, who had lost more perspiration? Frank.

Mike generates more heat riding his bike over the beach then over the road.
This means that riding over the road allows him to ride quicker

Tom was playing with his glider one afternoon when he found out a curious fact. It seems that the glider moves through foggy air slower than through cold air.
This means that his folder generates more heat moving through foggy air.

A weighty cement mixer and a light motorcycle are waiting at a red light.
When the light turns green, which accelerates more slowly? cement mixer.

Two people were driving to a destination. One person was driving a tank and the other person was driving a car.
Which thing was fastest to speed up? a car.

Mary's carriage generates a lot more friction when rolling over a pink surface then when rolling over a red surface
The red surface is smoother

A dirty tooth isn't as smooth as a clean tooth.
Which surface will a toothbrush move over at a greater rate of speed? clean tooth.

An average car weighs around 3 thousand pounds.
What would have a greater gravitational pull the Moon or a Car? Moon.

Pam is driving in her car to the zoo. Scott is walking to the zoo. It takes less time for Pam to get to the zoo.
This is because Pam is going faster.

The Cat scout, a black and white one, was moving across the carpet and it was much rougher than he smooth floor.
Her paws were getting caught in the carpet fibers which slowed her down.

Connor's dog ran out the door and down the street. He got in the car to chase it.
When will the dog look smaller to Connor? While chasing it.

Walking is much slower than driving so
it will take more time to make a journey.

The hiker moved slower through the bamboo trees than the open field grass because
it had more resistance.

The children were playing with a ball outside. When they rolled the ball across the grass, it traveled more rougher than when it went over the cement.
The ball would have generated more heat when it traveled over the grass.

Miles plays with a bouncy ball on a dirt path and then on a sidewalk. The bouncy ball bounces much higher on the sidewalk than it does on the dirt path.
The bouncy ball bounces higher on the sidewalk because the sidewalk has less resistance than the dirt path.

Sue was angry and kicked the oak door to her house. It barely budged. When she went inside, she kicked the plywood door to her room. Her foot went right through.
Which door was thicker? the oak door thicker.

A spooky old building has a fire going in the courtyard as Kara passes by. A good half mile away, she can see lantern light moving between the trees eerily.
The less intense source of luminescence from Kara's perspective is likely to be The weaving lantern light.

A paper plate has less resistance then a metal plate.
This means a fish ball rolling across the metal plate will move slower

Tony used his sawblade to cut both wood and stone. He learned that cutting wood generated less heat than cutting stone.
This made him realize that the wood was less rough

A drill works slower when drilling in hardwood verses pine.
That is because there is more friction when drilling hardwood.

Bus A has 20 pounds of weight was driving uphill with little problems. meanwhile Bus B was al so driving uphill was carrying 100 extra pounds and was struggling this is
because Bus B is heavier.

Kristy is trying to throw a garbage bag up into a dumpster. However, she is very weak.
Her friend Ashley comes over and is able to toss the bag in easily. Ashley is stronger.

Melissa and Janice are competing in a race. Melissa has traveled much farther than Janice, in the same time frame.
Melissa is like the which? Sprinter.

Kenny discovered that riding his surfboard through the ocean generated less resistance than riding his surfboard and the river.
He spent all day testing his theory, and he also learned that riding a surfboard in river made his surfboard get hotter

Mary and Tim were going on a trip. They were both driving their cars. Both were driving at the same speed and left at the same time.
However, Mary stopped at four in the afternoon, while Tim drove until it was dark. Who drove farther? Tim.

The Moon has less mass than Earth so
it has weaker gravity.

Billy and Jimmy decide to race home one day. Jimmy made it back home 10 minutes ahead of Billy.
That it because Jimmy is faster.

Will is about to have a birthday party. His mother has some supplies left over from other parties. She puts some straws on the counter. There are red ones and yellow ones. Will picks up a yellow straw and tries to bend it into a donut shape, but it breaks. He picks up a red one and does the same thing and he's able to touch the two ends together.
Which of the straws is less pliable? the yellow straw.

Penelope kicks the ball along the grass surface of a soccer field, then later she kicks it with the same force along an artificial turf field.
The ball rolls for a longer time on the artificial turf than it does on the grass, which is due to the more smooth surface of the artificial turf.

David was playing whiffleball in the backyard. He hit the ball and it rolled quickly on the soil. He then hit the ball again and it rolled more slowly in a mulched area.
Where would the ball roll the longest distance? soil.

A speedboat and a barge start at the same origin and travel across a 2 mile channel on the same path to the same destination.
Which boat will arrive first? Speedboat.

Jenni loves to ice skate and one day she notices that the blades on her skates have become dull. She can't skate nearly as fast on the dull blades as she can on the sharpened blades.
This means that if Jenni skates all out for 10 seconds that she will cover less ground on dull skates.

Mark drives down 1st Street and it is very bumpy so his car is slow. Then Mark drives down 2nd Street and his car goes fast.
This is because 2nd street has less resistance.

Betty was sitting nude in her bathroom, filing her nails, as she is wont to do every Sunday. Suddenly, she gasped, causing her husband consternation. What's the matter, dear? he inquired, not really caring, but hoping to head off any long complaints so he could go back to enjoying the Hammers lose another match. I was filing my nails, and they're starting to get hot!, Betty exclaimed. Oh, said her husband, turn the file around. Betty flipped the nail file from using the 100 grit nail file to using the 400 grit nail file, and contently carried on filing.
The 400 grit nail file has less resistance.

A man rides to the beach and parks his car in the sand. He realizes how smooth the road is when he leaves the beach.
The car makes produces more friction as he is driving over the sand.

Running a comb through dog hair is easier then running a comb through cat hair.
This means that the cat hair has more resistance

A worm and a caterpillar are crawling across a fallen tree trunk. The worm is not as speedy as the caterpillar.
Which will take longer to get across the tree trunk? worm.

The per so n was holding a phone screen near their face so
it seemed much brighter than the TV screen that was far away

Jimbo knows that his guest room floor is rougher then his craft table.
This means a glass bead rolling across the craft table will heat up less

Mike's bulldozer creeps along slowly on rubble, but speeds along quickly on sand.
This means that sand is rougher

A boy didn't want to go to church. He told his father he was fine and could learn on his own. His father got a thin twig. He showed the boy the twig, and then broke it in half. He then got many twigs, put them all together, tried to break them in half, and couldn't. The boy went to church.
The lesson: The boy, like the twig, is stronger in a group?.

John's whiffle ball warms up more when he rolls it over desert compared to when he rolls it over his driveway.
The surface of the driveway is more smooth

A shopping cart rolls by itself across a parking lot. Then it gets to a field. The cart rolls only a little more after it enters the field.
Why does this happen? the field is a rougher surface.

Ken wants to buy a new pair of glasses, but he is worried about breaking them.
He should buy a pair that is more flexible.

A car will move faster over a rougher surface than over a smoother one.
The car will move faster over parking lot.

A blade of grass isn't as thick as a tree trunk.
This means the blade of grass is weaker

Mike can roll his battery around quicker on a study desk then on a classroom desk.
Which desk is providing less resistance to the battery? study desk.

Billy dropped his backpack and 2 pencils rolled out. One landed on the sidewalk and the other in the grass.
The pencil on the sidewalk rolled faster than the one in the grass because of less friction.

Jane is in a plane which is about to descend.
From above the clouds, the city she's arriving in looks minuscule.

Peter is playing with his ball inside the house. As he kicks the ball, the ball goes flying across the room and hits two bottles that are sitting on top of the table.
Which bottle is more likely to break glass bottle.

A chicken thigh sliding across a lunch plate experiences more resistance then one sliding across a dinner plate.
Which surface will allow the chicken thigh to register less of an increase in temperature when slid across it? dinner plate.

Joe and Mike are throwing rocks at the lake.
If Mike is a lot stronger than Joe, who will be more likely to throw a rock further? Mike.

All massive objects like planets have very strong gravitational pulls. The Sun is larger than Neptune.
So which object in space has a stronger gravitational pull? Sun.

A penguin is forced to swim at a low rate of speed through icy water, but can swim rather quickly through clear water.
Which water is the most rough? icy water.

Jay's golf ball picked up speed rolling across the putting green to the sand trap where it came to a dead stop.
This happened because the sand trap has more friction.

The cow grazes faster on the grass than the mud.
because the mud has more resistance.

The NBA Player bounced the basketball higher on the court floor than on the gym mats
because they had more resistance.

Billy changed his slippery satin sheets for non-slip flannel when he constantly found himself on the floor.
This is because the the satin had less friction.

Amy's big dance performance was last night. In the morning, she rewards herself with a big breakfast and digs in.
Her skin was more moist when she exerted herself at the dance performance.

A roll with cinnamon sugar has been warmed up in the oven. The roll is pushed a little ways to move it off the cookie sheet. The roll moves a few inches. Then it slides off onto the plate. The second it hits the plate, it speeds up and flies off the plate.
Which surface is stickier? cookie sheet.

The beach volleyball player jumped higher on the gym floor than on the beach shore s and because
it had more resistance.

VY Canis Majoris is the largest known star and has a greater mass than the Sun so
it has stronger gravity.

The Moon is less massive than the Earth.
On which would the gravity be lower? Moon.

Randal isn't as strong as Jake, but does like to show off. After Jake throws a football, Randal throws one, too.
What likely happened? Randal's football doesn't go as far as Jake's.

A car drives over grass and stays cool. The car drives over pebbles and heats up.
The pebbles had more resistance.

When the vacuum was near Bob it was very loud. but when it was far away
it was quieter.

Willow's pretty pink sweater with the cute flowers was soft and dry, while Anya's sheer white blouse with the ruffles was soaking wet. Out of breath, she motioned for Willow to follow her.
Willow handed her a towel to dry off her forehead, but didn't need one herself because Willow was sweating less.

Peter Clark drove his Rolls Royce Wraith through the melted snow slush and got stuck.
He detoured and drove over hard mud because it was more smooth.

Pluto has a smaller mass then Venus.
Which planet emits less gravity? Pluto.

James knows that snow is less rough than dirt.
This made him decide that riding his sled down the hill in the dirt would make the bottom of the sled get hotter

Hank is cleaning up the restaurant with a rag.
It will be much quicker to clean the bar because the surface is smoother.

Tim is playing with a penny that he found at the beach. Tim rolls the penny around in some new areas. He rolls the penny in the sand and sees that it doesn't go very far. Tim rolls the penny on the concrete sidewalk and sees that the penny rolls for several feet.
Tim decides that there was more resistance on the sand.

Harold spent a day rolling his bike tire across a dirt yard and a field. He discovered that the field was fougher then the dirt yard.
Rolling a bike tire across a dirt yard generates less resistance

Mike noticed that his dart moves faster through his cork board than through his wooden board.
He then knows that cork board has less friction

Jason is sitting on Johns back as he does pushups.
Who is sweating more in this situation? John.

Kate figured out that her plate is smoother than her sandpaper by rolling a coin across the two surfaces.
She also determined that the plate has less resistance

The dancer did more moves on the floor. than the couch
because the couch has more resistance.

Rebecca rolls the globe in her classroom over a book and then the carpeting. Rolling it over the book generates less heat than on the carpet.
Which surface has more resistance? carpeting.

With his ship now spiraling out of control, the astronaut could do nothing but shield his eyes as his crippled craft neared the sun.
As he came ever closer, the incredible star grew brighter.

Naomi rolls a grapefruit across a purple mat and a pink mat. The grapefruit has less friction across the pink mat.
This is because the pink mat is smoother.

As I look up at the sky I see many beautiful stars.
If I were in space would the stars appear Larger.

John likes to snow tube in the winter and tube down sand dunes in the summer. He notices he can attain greater speeds overall when he snow tubes.
Which surface has higher friction? Sand.

The sun is much more massive than Mars therefore
it has stronger gravity.

Enrique is playing with his beach ball and it blows away, rolls through his muddy yard, and then rolls down the paved street.
The ball rolled faster in the street because the paved street had less resistance.

Joe was gardening.
It was easier to push the wheelbarrow that was empty.

Jane sees Matt standing at his bicycle two feet away from her. Matt gets on his bicycle and rides away from Jane. She looks at him again when he is thirty feet away.
At which point will Matt's bicycle seem bigger to Jane? Two feet.

Mindy is going out to do some target shooting with her bow and arrow. The old bow string on her bow is less springy than the newer bow string she has.
Which of these strings will be less likely to snap during her target shooting? newer bow string.

A worker pushes a wheeled dolly over a patch of grass into a building and then pushes the dolly on the concrete floor inside the building. She notices the dolly moves faster over the concrete floor than it does over the grass.
The reason for this is that the surface with more resistance is the grass.

Anna saved some peas from her school lunch and carried them around the school. When she went to gym, she rolled a pea on the rubber floor. When she picked up the pea, it was cool. Later she rolled a pea on the berber carpet she sat on for storytime. When she picked up the pea, it was warmer than the pea had been on the gym floor.
She concluded that which surface has less friction? rubber flo.

A captain lost at sea is looking for a light house to guide his way home.
Where would the lighthouse look brighter? when he is close to shore.

A frozen pea rolling across a freezer shelf rolls along very smoothly while one rolling along the floor has a rough time.
This means that the freezer shelf has less friction

Tim threw a pebble down the mountain effortlessly, and it was out of site in seconds. Bob rolled a boulder down the mountain, and after a minute of heaving, it finally descended, gaining speed as it went.
Which was heavier? the boulder was heavier.

The man walked out of the building drenched in sweat. he was likely leaving which
A gym.

Mike knows that his wooden board won't flex as much as his plastic sheet.
This means the wooden board would be more likely to break if he bent it.

A branch is taken off a tree and bent, then left to dry and bent again.
Which is more likely to break? The fresh branch.

A pair of glasses experiences low resistance when slid across a counter, but high resistance when slid across an office desk.
Which surface will cause the glasses to get hotter as they travel across it? desk.

A new planet has been discovered with two moons circling it. One is reddish and the other is black and gold. Scientists saw that asteroids were more attracted to the black and gold moon.
Which of the moons has weaker gravity? the reddish moon.

Lolly spun the fidget spinner better in the so da rather than the yogurt. because the
so da has less resistance.

Sliding a hair brush across a sandy floor makes the brush heat up less then sliding it across a gritty floor.
This means the sandy flo is the smoothest surface

Shaquille O'neal weighs more than twice Allen Iverson's weight.
Who would take longer to run the length of the basketball court? O'neal.

Jimbo can bend a blade of easier then he can bend a stick.
Which item would he have a harder time breaking? blade of grass.

Mike rolled a baseball across a field and it travelled at 5 mph. He then rolled a basketball across a field and it also travelled at 5 mph. The baseball rolled for a longer time then the basketball.
Which ball travelled a greater distance? baseball.

Kyle is riding his motorcycle on a path. The motorcycle goes faster on the clear parts of the path, but where the path is leafy, the motorcycle slows down and is harder to drive.
Kyle knows that the leafy path has more friction than the clear path.

The llama trotted much faster on slate than stones
because the stones had more resistance.

Milo has always been stronger then Mona.
If both throw a ball, which will throw it further? Milo.

Bob buys a new tractor. He drives it around a parking lot before he buys it. Later he is at home in his field driving his tractor in the field. He realizes that the tractor generates more heat while driving over the field.
This is because there is less friction on the road.

If you hired a pitcher
a bodybuilder likely can pitch a baseball faster.

A beetle experiences low resistance walking around in a shoebox and high resistance walking around on a carpet.
This means the beetle gets hotter walking around on the carpet.

The hippy van drove slow through the sandy shore and quickly on the pier because
it had more friction.

A millipede and a centipede were walking along a trail at the same speed. The millipede stopped after 8 feet and the centipede kept going.
Which one spent less time walking? the millipede.

We set up food on a splintered, wood picnic table. I slid the bottle of sriracha sauce to the other end of the table which moved about two inches per second. I found the plastic tablecloth at the bottom of the basket and covered the table. My friend slid the bottle of sriracha sauce back over to my side which moved nearly six times faster per second.
The surface that is more rugged is the wood.

The diesel engine was a very loud engine when it was close. but as it drove away
it became quieter.

Jimbo and Milo are working out together in the gym. Jimbo is browsing the internet on his phone while Milo is lifting weights.
Which person is sweating less? Jimbo.

A peach experiences less friction rolling on a picnic table then rolling on a dining room table.
Which table will allow the peach to rolling around at a higher rate of speed? picnic table.

Jupiter is the largest planet. The sun however is still much bigger.
Which planet has more gravity? Sun.

The toddler moved faster in the sandbox than in the patch of grass because
it had more resistance.

Jane found that her coin had a harder time moving through water then rolling over a table.
She determined that the water had more resistance

Joe rolls a spray can on its side across the concrete floor in his garage, then he takes the spray can in side and rolls it across his bear skin floor.
The can comes to stop after a shorter distance on the bear skin rug than it does on the concrete floor, which leads him to the determination that the smoother surface is the concrete flo.

The stars appear dimmer in the night sky compared to the moon.
This is because the stars are further away than the moon.

Jeremy has found that his tricycle moves faster on the sidewalk than the grass.
This is because the sidewalk has less resistance.

The bowling ball rolled much more easily over the tile floor than the group of small rocks.
This was due to there being more resistance with the small rocks.

The old lady was weaker than the young man
so she throws a ball less far.

John looked up and saw both the sun and moon in the sky. The sun was closer to him then the moon was.
Which object appeared brighter to him? sun.

Pam tried rolling a ping pong ball across a sheet of ice and then across a muddy area. She noticed that the ball rolled much further across the ice than the muddy area.
She concluded that there was more resistance to the ping pong ball in the muddy area.

A basketball rolling along a dry floor will heat up more then one rolling along a waxed floor.
This means the waxed flo has less friction

A chain gets hotter when dragged across a garage floor then when dragged across a road.
Which surface forces the chain to experience more friction? garage flo.

Before training, there was a person who could barely lift a sofa cushion. After a month, they could lift a whole couch.
The person would be able to throw a bowling ball further after training.

If Jimbo holds a candle that produces 10 lumens farther away then a flashlight that produces 10 lumens. which one would appear to be less bright
candle.

A person wants to get shopping done quickly. They know that they can get through the checkout at big store faster than they can at small store.
The store they go to to finish quickly is big store.

Lacy is shopping for a toy for her dog. She knows that her dog is rough, so she doesn't want it to break.
Lacy chooses a more flexible toy.

Jimbo isn't as strong as Harry.
If both men throw a ball, which will make it go the greater distance? Harry.

Amy was cooking some spaghetti. She noticed that dry spaghetti is harder to bend than cooked spaghetti.
Which one is more likely to break? dry spaghetti.

A hatchback experiences less friction when driving on a desert highway then when driving on a jungle highway.
This means the hatchback can drive a greater distance over the desert highway.

When Ann plays her volleyball game in a gym the ball rolls away faster as opposed to when she plays on the beach.
This is because the sand surface has more resistance.

A cactus patch has more friction than a field.
This means that a bunny running through field can travel at a greater rate of speed

The baby chimp swung super fast through the oak trees, until he reached a palm tree and had to slow down.
The oak tree was more smooth.

A stingray can swim quicker in the ocean then in a lake.
This means the stingray's wings will heat up less in the ocean.

Troy is going to a music festival. The parking lot is full, but there is extra parking in the adjacent field. Troy realizes that he is able to go faster in the parking lot than on the field.
This is because the field has more friction.

A pickup and a van both drive on the highway at 60 mph.
If the pickup pulls off at an exit sooner then the van, which will have traveled less distance? pickup.

Josh was playing outside. He rolled a ball on a wooden plank, but when it got to the grass it slowed down.
This is because grass has higher friction.

Brian is building a bookshelf. He has lots of books and needs it to be sturdy.
He decides to use a thicker piece of wood.

Earth has stronger gravity than Mars
because Earth has more mass.

Mike was studying astronomy and learned that a planet has greater mass then an asteroid.
This means that the planet emits stronger gravity.

Paul was swimming and saw a bio-luminescent jellyfish in the water near him. Terrified, he started swimming as fast as he could away from it.
When he turned his head back around to look, the jellyfish would appear to be dimmer because it was further away from him.

The nunchucks experience more resistance on a yoga mat then on a wooden floor.
This means that they will slide slower on the yoga mat.

The skin on the bottom of my feet felt like they'd been shredded after cooling off at a pool for a couple of days, while the smoother surface of the second pool I enjoyed was much easier on my feet.
This is because of the reduced friction of the smoother pool?

Sally was running and sliding through the kitchen on the linoleum in her socks and having a lot of fun. She slid from the linoleum to the carpet and came to an abrupt stop.
Which surface has less resistance? Linoleum.

The fish flopped quickly across the boat floor. but slowed down when it reached the shore because
it had more friction.

A glider moves at a lower rate of speed through the treetops then through the air. Which surface is smoother
air.

Jim knows that his cutting board is smoother then his wooden floor.
When he slides his banana across the cutting board it moves at a greater rate of speed compared to when he slides it across the wooden floor

Jason was riding a four wheeler. It was harder to ride the four wheeler through the mud than on the gravel.
Jason was able to move faster on the gravel.

A cat can run easier on a sofa compared to a chair.
This means the cat will be forced to run slower on the chair.

Sam is at the local bowling alley. He throws a bowling ball down a smooth bowling lane and sees how fast it goes. Then he throws a bowling ball down the rough carpet hallway and sees how fast it goes.
The ball will go faster on the bowling lane.

Two matchbox cars are being rolled down a sidewalk at the same time. The red car goes further than the blue car.
Which car is quicker? red car.

Mary was bent two objects to see which would break first. The wooden board broke right away, while the metal pole didn't break at all.
Which object was less flexible? wooden board.

Jim decided that rolling his rolling pin over soft dough resulted in less friction then rolling it over crispy dough.
He then decided that his rolling pin would roll further over the soft dough.

Tina drops a cup on the floor. The cup rolls quickly across the wood floor, then slows down on the carpet floor.
The cup slowed on the carpet because of more friction.

Hank determined that a raceway has less friction than a city street when driving his racecar over both areas.
His racecar went a lot quicker over the raceway.

As Judy is walking into the cave with her flashlight and Kate is standing at the entrance watching her go
the light from the flashlight will get dimmer as she walks away.

Marie rides her motorcycle to work. She rides it across the sand and onto the concrete. When she rides her motorcycle across the sand, the motorcycle tires heat up, but cool down on the concrete.
The tires heat up on the sand because it has more friction.

Mary figured out that her mirror is smoother than her desk when she slid her sandal across both surfaces by mistake.
This means that the mirr has less resistance

Paul had been working out his arm muscles and they were very strong. His little brother had no chance in an arm wrestling match against him. They had a contest to see who could toss a baseball further. One brother tossed the ball 20 feet and the other tossed the ball 100 feet.
The one who tossed the ball 20 feet was the little brother.

Kelly is skating with her friends. She is able to go faster on the new sidewalk than in the old parking lot.
This is because the new sidewalk is smoother.

The planet Earth has more mass then the plant Venus.
Which plant has stronger gravity emitting from it? Earth.

Kelly is standing on the planet Mercury. Allison is on Pluto. Each girl is looking up into the sun.
Which girl has a brighter view of the sun? Kelly.

Alan was playing with a ball. He noticed that when he rolled the ball across the tile floor, it moved easier than it did on the carpet.
This is because the carpet is rougher.

A hiker that is spending their time outdoors will likely sweat more than
so meone working in an office.

A barrel of water and a barrel of molasses are stored side by side in a warehouse. They both tip over and begin leaking their contents on the ground. The molasses runs out at a crawling pace while the water runs out at a gushing pace.
Which liquid will be closer to its barrel after one minute? the molasses.

If Jimbo is standing closer to a jackhammer then to a diesel engine. which item will so und louder to him
jackhammer.

Mark has offered to tow his friends truck which has broken down. It is very heavy, which is causing delay in speeding up.
This truck must be which? King Cab Truck.

Don's car needs to be rolled through a wooded area, across a grassy field and into the street. The car moves very slowly across the wooded ground, then a little faster across the grassy ground.
The grassy ground had less friction.

David is camping and looking at the night sky. He notices that Jupiter looks a lot smaller than the moon.
This is because Jupiter compared to the moon is further away from Earth.

Kate's sled gets much hotter over loose snow than over snowpack.
This means that the snowpack is smoother

Carl is walking to school and he takes the sidewalk. Where the sidewalk is dry, Carl walks easily. Where there is icy sidewalk, Carl's shoes slip and he starts to fall.
Carl's shoes slip on the icy sidewalk because it has less friction.

A kitten crawled under a smooth wooden fence and a rough wire fence.
The kitten's fur was much less warm after crawling under the wooden fence.

James is rolling his marble around on the kitchen table. There are some cloth place mats on the table. The place mats have more resistance than the surface of the table.
The surface that will generate more heat is a place mat.

A cat has low resistance when running through a jungle and high resistance when running through a bedroom.
Which surface will allow the cat to reach a higher top speed as it moves around on top of it? jungle.

Candy and Sandy were playing in the park when it started pouring down rain. They both ran to their houses as fast as they could to get out of the rain. Sandy lived further from the park than Candy, but the each made it to their respective house at the same moment.
Which of the girls was a faster runner? Sandy.

A grapefruit can roll a greater distance across an orchard compared to one rolling across a cannery.
Which surface will make the grapefruit get hotter? cannery.

Kate's baseball stayed cooler when she rolled it over the sandlot compared to when she rolled it over the infield.
This taught her that the sandlot has less friction

A Serengeti tiger runs way faster on grass, than mud. He's chasing a gazelle.
This means grass has less friction.

The Porsche was much faster than the Toyota
so on the race the Porsche took less time to make the trip.

Jacob worked up a sweat riding his bicycle across the grass in the park, but had an easier time when finally he came to the street.
This was because the surface of the street had less friction.

Matt knows that cakes are smoother than pies.
Which dish can he push his spatula deeper into? cake.

The tire of a unicycle heats up more when ridden through the street compared to when it is ridden through the road.
Which surface will let the unicycle go a greater distance? road.

A spoon can plunge smoothly into stew and has a rough time plunging into jello.
Will the spoon have a harder time plunging into the jello and create more heat while doing so

A scientist is playing with a wind-up monkey when he notices that it goes faster over one surface than another.
The surface with the most friction is a marble countertop.

Tom and Steve are riding their bikes to the beach. Tom starts riding his bike earlier.
Who rode their bike further? Tom.

A bed sheet is more flexible then a wooden board.
Which item is less likely to break if bent? bed sheet.

Jim knows that grit is rougher than a chalkboard.
He then assumes that he can drag his fingers further along the chalkboard.

Sliding a magazine across a waiting room table causes it to slide a greater distance then sliding it across a coffee table.
Which table will make the magazine get hotter? coffee table.

Graviton is twice as massive as Thanos.
Which will exert more of a pull on atoms? Graviton.

A scientist is playing with army vehicle toys when he lets his tank loose on a wooden ramp.
Half of the ramp is painted, so the half that likely makes the tank go faster is the painted half.

A flea heats up less running over a shaved dog then running over a hairy dog.
This means the hairy dog has more resistance

Sheila is looking at the night sky, and watches a plane pass overhead.
She notes that the plane has bright lights when it's almost directly overhead, but once the plane passes by, the lights are less bright.

If a bird travels for a longer period of time
and a.

The black hole has much more mass than the star so
it also has stronger gravity.

I was able to stretch the playdough for a while before it broke.
I tried to do the same with a piece of my hair and it snapped almost instantly. Which is more flexible playdough.

Ken got a flat tire on his truck near a country intersection late at night. He didn't have a spare tire and didn't have a phone to call for help. So he sat down at the corner. Finally he noticed two vehicles approaching, one from the north and one from the west. The headlights on the one from the west were very faint but the headlights on the vehicle from the north were very visible.
Which approaching vehicle was closer to Ken? the one from the north.

A tortoise and a hare decided to race each other and the tortoise was slower.
Halfway through the race, which one had travelled further? the hare.

The restaurant manager carried dishes much easier on the carpet than on the kitchen tile floor because
it had less friction.

Mike learned in school that steel is considerably more rough than aluminum.
He also noticed that he could move his wire brush a greater distance over the aluminum while he was cleaning the two surfaces

Ashley was dragging her sled to a friend's house to play on a warm winter day. The snow was melting in some places but they tried to sled ride anyway. Ashley found that her sled moved very slowly on mud and she didn't make it to the bottom. The sled moved much faster and made it to the bottom of the hill when they could ride the sled on snow.
Ashley and her friend decided that the surface with the least resistance to their sled was snow.

Jim was pulling a trailer full of lemons behind his ATV. He was riding with his friend Bill who had nothing behind his ATV. They were trying to speed up to get home because it looked like it was going to rain.
Who was able to pull ahead of the other? Bill.

A frozen burrito rolling around in a freezer has low resistance, but one rolling in a fridge has high resistance.
This means the fridge is rougher

Jasmine rolls a ball of yarn for her cat. The ball of yarn rolls faster on the wood floor than it does on the carpet.
The carpet has more friction than the wood floor.

Missy walks into her apartment building past some street workers who operating a jackhammer. She goes up to her 50th floor apartment and decides to sit out on the balcony.
The sound of the jackhammer will be more ear-splitting at street level.

Carl rides his bike on gravel and his bike moves slowly. When Carl rides his bike on a paved street, his bike moves quickly.
There is more resistance on the gravel.

A truck that was weighed down with a trailer was much heavier than the empty truck
so the empty truck was faster.

A fully loaded truck and a small car are sitting at a stop light. As the light turns green, the small car is able to drive off much quicker than the heavy truck.
What vehicle is slower to speed up truck,.

Larry learned that a football field is less rough than a mud pit while wheeling his wagon through both.
He also learned that his wagon moved slower through mud pit.

A drone can fly faster in a calm sky then in a breezy sky.
This means that more heat is generated when the drone flies in the breezy sky.

Mike's paperclip gets much hotter when he pokes it into his red board compared to when he pokes it into his green board.
His paperclip travels further through the green board.

Jim likes to write. Sometimes he uses calligraphy paper and other times he uses notebook paper. He's noticed over the years that calligraphy paper is more rough than notebook paper.
Which surface will make his pen heat up more calligraphy paper.

A tire rolls a greater distance over a dirt path than over a muddy road.
This means that the dirt path has less friction

Milo can slide his coaster at a quicker rate of speed over his coffee table then over his dining table.
This means the coaster will heat up less over the coffee table then over the dining table

Matt noticed that an ice rink has less friction then a sandpaper floor.
Sliding a hockey puck across ice rink results in a smoother journey

A hedgehog weighs less then a beaver.
If both animals start running, which will get up to top speed faster? hedgehog.

Allison is playing with her ball on the carpet. When she rolls it, it doesn't go very far.
Allison takes the ball to roll on the marble floor, and the ball goes very far. The marble has less friction.

Jack and Jill are sliding a cellphone back and forth along the tabletop very easily. Their mother puts a tablecloth over the tabletop and it's not as easy to slide the phone anymore.
Which surface has less friction? TABLETOP.

Lily and her brother wanted to play with marbles. It was raining so they had to play inside. They tried to play with their marbles on the bedspread first but the marbles barely moved. The marbles moved in all directions when the siblings played with them on a plastic table instead.
The marbles moved on the plastic table instead of the bedspread because the plastic table provided less friction.

Eric is a bodybuilder, and Andre is a preschooler. Both of them toss a ball as hard as they can.
The ball flies a longer ways when thrown by Eric.

Rod was trying to find a place to park. It was easier for him to drive in the cemented parking lot, but he wasn't able to find a spot. He drove into the grass to park. It was a rough drive in the grass.
When he drove in the parking lot there was less heat generated.

A hot air balloon is floating through the sky, and to Dean, who is below on the ground, it looks small.
As the hot air balloon begins to approach the ground, it looks bigger.

When Mona slid her coffee cup across her coffee table it had a bumpy ride, but when she slid it across her kitchen counter it slid easily.
This means that the coffee table friction

The old bookcase held all of Ted's heavy textbooks with no problem, but the stylish new shelves his wife bought when she remodeled the house snapped under the weight in a day.
Which bookshelf was made of thinner wood? The new bookshelf had thinner wood.

Arnie's muscles on his upper arms are very thick, while Davy's upper arms are thin.
Who is likely to be stronger? Arnie is stronger.

An orange experiences more friction rolling across a grove floor compared to a dining table.
Which surface causes the orange to travel at a lower rate of speed? grove flo.

A space rock makes impact on Earth in front of Jon's house. He asks his mom why this rock fell to Earth but the moon doesn't.
She should say the moon because it has more mass.

Joe and John want to race to see who can get from 0 to 60 miles per hour faster. Joe is driving his motorcycle while John is driving a truck.
Who is more likely to get from 0 to 60 faster? Joe in the motorcycle.

A baseball rolled on a wooden bench will take longer to stop moving than a baseball rolled on grass.
This shows us that the smoother surface is wooden bench.

A ferrari has to drive slow on a street, but can drive faster on a highway.
This means the highway is the most rough

Karen and Kendra are playing on a soccer team.
At half time it's clear that Kendra has been sweating much more than Karen. Kendra has been working harder.

A racehorse and a horse drawn carriage both depart from a saloon at the same time. The horse drawn carriage is twenty times slower than the racehorse.
Which will arrive last at the next town? the horse drawn carriage will take more time to arrive at the next town.

Bill is hammering sheets of metal and tries to hammer a block of metal but cannot because
it is wider.

Joe left his house at nine A. M. and had been driving for hours by the time Sue finally got on the road at 1:00 P. M. By 2:00 P. M.
, who had driven the furthest amount of miles? Joe had driven the furthest.

A black hole is much more massive than Earth so if a black hole got near Earth
it would have stronger gravity.

Rolling a watermelon across a farm makes it get pretty hot, while rolling it across a city keeps it pretty cool.
This means the city is more smooth

Eddy and Norma are running. They are running at the same speed, but Eddy started running before Norma.
If they stop at the same time, who will have run farther? Eddy.

Carter rolls a ball across some ice and the ball quickly rolls ten feet forward. He then rolls the ball across the grass and the ball rolls four feet forward.
The grass has more friction.

Today, is the day that Jimbo gets to drive his Uncle's tank. He rides his motorcycle over to his home. Compared to his motorcycle, he notices it takes much longer for it to accelerate.
This is because the tank is heavier than the motorcycle.

At the olympic trials a weightlifter was up against a chef in the shotput. the weightlifter threw the item further
because he is stronger.

A child slides down a metal slide, off the end and onto the grass where she stops.
She stops because the grass has higher resistance.

Cutting thin paper offers less resistance then cutting thick paper.
This means the thick paper is more rugged

Brian is working out for weeks, but then pulls a muscle and has to stop.
Brian's perspiration levels will drop.

A burrow is more rough than a jungle.
This means a snake's scales will heat up more slithering through a burrow.

Kim is kicking a ball around the carpet in the house. Her mom tells her to go outside. She notices that the ball flies at a much higher speed when she kicks it across the cement.
This is because the cement is smoother.

Alan and Dave are both tossing a ball across a field and trying to see whose ball will reach the furthest. Alan is very tough and works out a lot, but Dave is overweight and spends no time exercising.
The person whose ball crosses the field is Alan.

Mike knows his farm field is smooth and his back yard is rough.
This means that when he rolls his melon across the back yard it will experience more resistance

A turtle and a rabbit both travel across the field to get some shade.
Which animal is last to get there? Turtle.

The marathon runner ran super quickly through their open land. and much slower through the Amazon forest because
it had more resistance.

If a boat is slower then a submarine. which craft will take longer to make the same journey
boat.

The frog baby floated faster on her baby lily pad. than in the water
because the water has more resistance.

The teenager ran and flew far on the slip n slide, but only got a few feet when sliding on wet grass.
The smoother surface was slip n slide.

Planet 845-B had a lot of gravitational pull on the celestial objects surrounding it, but Planet 483-6-C barely affected the space around it at all.
Which of the two planets is likely to have the larger amount of mass? Planet 845-B.

Tim discovered that his polished floor was not nearly as rough as his quilt by experimenting with rolling a cup over the two surfaces.
He wondered if the polished floor would heat up less when he rolled his cup over it.

John plays tennis in his tennis shoes. He noticed that running across clay courts garner up more warmth than asphalt courts on his tennis shoes.
There is obviously less friction on asphalt.

A turkey leg can slide a greater distance across a thanksgiving table then across a floor.
This means the thanksgiving table has less friction

A tank rides smooth over desert, but rough in the jungle.
The tank encounters less resistance in the desert.

A rock star begins playing his popular ballad in the darkened auditorium. He sees a lighter close to the stage light up and also one that's far from the stage light up.
Which lighter will look like it has less brightness to the rock star? the lighter that's far from the stage.

Josh skated on the sidewalk and on the grass. He noticed that he could skate faster on the sidewalk than on the grass.
If Josh simply allowed himself to roll freely, without pushing himself, could he roll further on the sidewalk.

Jimbo works out more the Kate and is the stronger person.
If both throw a basketball, which will make it travel the greater distance? Jimbo.

A bike weighs more than a skateboard.
This means that the skateboard can speed up faster.

A flatbed truck has a really rough time driving over a landfill and a rather easy time driving over a parking lot.
Which surface will let the flatbed truck travel a greater distance? parking lot.

Jen was taking a walk and she could hear an airplane overhead. The sound got fainter.
Was the airplane coming closer or moving away? moving away.

Jason has just woken up from a coma and needs to learn to use his arms and legs again. He goes to the park to throw a ball with his friend Andy.
Who can throw the ball harder? Andy.

If Jimbo is standing closer to a grinder then to an engine. which item will so und less loud to him
engine.

A child can run faster in a field then on a jungle gym.
This means the field has less resistance

When Ryan was far away from the airhorn it didn 't seem that loud but when he got closer
it seemed much louder.

Travis was riding his bike. He noticed he had more trouble pedaling on the grass than on the roadway.
Travis traveled faster on the roadway.

Daniel is carrying a glass ball and a rubber ball. He know that the rubber ball is more flexible than the glass ball.
Which ball is more likely to break if he drops it? the glass ball.

Bob was looking at the lights in his room
and noticed that his lights appeared brighter than those across the street

Matt and his son are throwing stones at the lake.
Matt is stronger so he can throw them farther.

Monique is playing tennis and rolls the ball on the tennis court. The ball rolls pretty far. Then Monique rolls the ball in her sandbox at home, and notices that the ball doesn't roll very far at all.
The sandbox has more friction than the tennis court.

One of the weird things about Kate's house is that her bathroom sink seems smoother than her kitchen sink.
She dropped a quarter down both sinks and learned that the bathroom sink heat up less

If you wanted to slingshot a probe into deep space which object would you use for a gravitational assist
The Sun.

A jet is faster then a prop plane.
If both fly around for the same amount of time, which will have gone farther? jet.

The firefly fly through the icy rain super slow. but glided freely through the slight wind because
it had less resistance.

Tom rides his bicycle as fast as he can around a track for an hour and he rides his motorcycle as fast as he can around the same track for an hour.
On which vehicle will Tom complete fewer laps? Bicycle.

Derek is leaving the bars for the night. The bars are brightly lit.
As Derek heads into the night, the lights from the bars get darker.

Jana and her mom were biking through the park. Her mom was being more leisurely.
Who took longer to make a lap around the park? her mom.

Brad is trying to find his friend's house at night. The friend left a porch light on for Brad to find his way.
Though the light is bright when Brad arrives, when he was still making his way there, Brad thought the light was low.

A segway can travel a much greater distance inside a shopping mall before needing a recharge then when it is cruising around outside on the street. Which surface is rougher
street.

The glassblower mistakenly let the liquid glass become too hard and when he tried to manipulate its shape, it snapped.
Which glass could be shaped and bent more easily? The liquid glass.

From Melanie's perspective, Penny's red SUV looked tiny compared to Roy's white one, even though it was the same make and model of car.
Which vehicle is nearer to Melanie's location? Roy's is nearer.

A submarine cruising through the arctic ocean experiences a hotter hull then when it cruises through the pacific ocean.
This means that the submarine can cruise through the pacific ocean at a faster rate of speed

After school, Johnny wants to start a baseball game with several of his friends at the baseball field. There are kids of many shapes and sizes. After picking several friends to be on his team, he is down to his last pick. There is Alvin who is 100 pounds and Timmy who is 200 pound. He needs a pitcher who is strong enough to throw the ball farther.
Who will be the stronger pitcher 200 pound Timmy.

Marla is running around the track, while her mom lags behind pushing the baby's stroller.
Who take a longer time to make a lap? her mom.

Both a cheetah and a rabbit are running in a field at the same rate of speed. The rabbit gives up before the cheetah and stops to catch its breath.
Which animal ran the greater distance? cheetah.

Saturn has greater mass than the Moon of Earth.
On which one would you experience stronger gravity? Saturn.

Both a cat and a dog are running down the road at the same speed chasing a bunny. The dog gives up before the cat, which means the cat ran for a longer length of time.
Which animal ran a greater distance? cat.

Rob and Rich are doing gymnastics. Rich is dripping wet with sweat and Rob appears to be sweating only a little.
Who's doing the more intense exercise? Rich.

A professional skater skating on a frozen lake experiences hotter skates then if they were skating on an ice rink.
This means the ice rink is more smooth

Mary's skateboard moves slower when she skates on a wet skatepark compared to when she skates on a dry skatepark.
This means her skateboard gets hotter when she rides it on the wet skatepark.

Fezzik the strong giant and Inigo the not as strong swordsman are having a contest. Each one throws a rock as far as he can.
Who can throw farther? Fezzik.

Paula rarely has to wash her usually pristine gym gear after a personal training session, but Rachel almost always has to put her sweat-drenched workout clothes right into the dirty laundry.
Who does more exercising during their time at the gym? Rachel exercises more.

Tyler is headed to work and is walking along side a coworker, Jon. Jon speed walks, but Tyler does not.
The person who spends more time getting to work is Tyler.

A raft weighs less then a schooner.
Which boat can get up to top speed faster? raft.

Milo's kitchen table is smoother than his coffee table.
Sliding a piece of paper across the kitchen table will heat the paper up less

Mike is driving along the highway and sees some mountains off in the distance. As he continues driving he gets closer and closer to the mountains.
At which point will the mountains look bigger? when they're up close.

When Jason looked out his window, it looked like his neighbor's lights were operating at half the power that his own lights were.
What could explain this? the neighbors are farther away.

Jimbo knows that his marble has a lesser mass then his rock.
This means the rock has stronger gravity.

Sue is in the airport terminal waiting for her flight to board and watching the planes as they fly in. She sees a plane a good distance from the airport flying closer and a few minutes later that same plane lands and pulls up to the terminal outside.
When will the plane look like it has less size? when it's off in the distance.

Tommy says goodbye to his grandparents at their house, and drives down the highway.
A mile away, he can still see his grandparents' house, but now the lights appear dimmer.

Mike's pickle seems to roll around quicker on his ceramic plate then on his paper plate.
This means his pickle heats up more rolling around on the paper plate.

Mike knows his middle finger is rougher then his pinkie finger.
This means he has to slide his ring onto his middle finger.

A dirty toilet is not at smooth as a clean toilet.
This means a plunger can manipulate the water inside of a clean toilet quicker

A car will drive smoother on a paved road than a cobblestone path.
That is because the tires create low friction against the paved road compared to the cobblestone path.

Bob is a human. Carl's a zombie. Carl is chasing Bob. Bob is sweating a lot. Carl would be sweating, but he's dead. Bob's pretty scared, and is running very, very quickly.
His shirt is drenched in sweat! Who's exercising more? the human is exercising more.

Milo knows that his wooden table has less resistance then his throw rug.
He slid his cranberry across both surfaces and the cranberry moved less quickly across the throw rug.

The NFL player ran much faster on the Astroturf there on the park grass
because It had more friction.

Miranda is tossing around a ball with her friend Melanie. Melanie is a professional ball player, but Miranda is not.
The ball goes further when thrown by Melanie.

Opie saw a traffic cone behind the school bus when it made a stop.
When the bus started moving again, it seemed that the cone got smaller.

A pebble experiences more friction rolling down a sandy beach then down a rocky beach.
This means the sandy beach is smoother

A paper towel is placed over a cup. So is a sheet of iron.
Which surface will be easier to drill through? Paper Towel.

Terry's car drives down a blue trail and a green trail. The car goes faster and a longer distance on the green trail, but is slow on the blue trail.
The green trail has less friction.

Timmy's mittens got hotter when he rubbed them on brick compared to when he rubbed them on clay
The clay has less resistance

The Base camp turf was so much easier to navigate than going up the Rocky Mountains for the Explorer.
This is because it had more resistance.

When there was an explosion near Bill's office
it was louder than the explosion across town

If you were to throw a ball at Jupiter you'd notice that the ball has less mass
and therefore has weaker gravity.

George is watching the beginning of a fireworks show at the beach when he realizes he forgot something at home. He leaves early.
He can still see the fireworks when driving home, but they look dimmer.

Macy is attending the local Christmas parade.
She covers her ears when a marching band comes where? Directly in front of her.

Jen learned that a shower floor is less smooth than a slip and slide by rolling her glass marble across them.
The glass marble creates less heat when rolling over slip and slide.

Sam and Bob decided to jog together side by side through the park.
Bob caught a cramp and was unable to finish. Who traveled more Sam.

John rolled a large ball and a small ball at the same time.
Which will roll further faster? large ball.

Skippy and Finn are dogs who are running down the street. They run at the same speed.
Skippy stops running before Finn does, so who ran the farthest? Finn.

Janie is moving her dresser.
When she is moving it, it will move quicker across the carpet because the carpet provides less resistance.

Bob has two almost identical toy wagons that his dad built for him, one red one and one blue one. He's piled a bunch of toys and other objects in both of them. He pushes the blue one and it easily goes fast across the patio. He pushes the red one, and it barely gets moving.
Which one has a lighter load? the blue wagon.

A floor has more friction then a couch.
This means the cat can run across the flo at a quicker rate of speed

Mike's airplane creates a lot more heat when he drives it over his field instead of over his tarmac.
Mike's airplane will move a greater distance over tarmac.

Jimbo isn't as strong as Henry.
Which person can toss a soccer ball a greater distance? Henry.

The Preacher danced better on the church stage than on the church floor because
it had more resistance.

Niles is trying to find out which planet will have a stronger gravitational pull. He is comparing Pluto with Mars.
The planet with more mass is Mars.

Kate's ladle generated more heat when she stirred so up rather than broth. The
so up has more resistance

Mike was comparing the mass of a boulder and a pebble. He found that the mass of the boulder was much greater then the mass of the pebble.
Which item emits weaker gravity? pebble.

Brock is dragging a toy behind him. He pulls it across the smooth tile floor, then on the gravel driveway outside.
Where is Brock able to drag the toy faster? tile flo.

Kevin was thick glasses, Dean has thin glasses.
Whose glasses would fare better in a fall? Kevin's.

Jimbo and James are digging a hole together. Jimbo is doing most of the work, and James is mainly standing around.
Which person is sweating more? Jimbo.

Joe was watching a surgical video where one of the arms was a grasper. When it moved towards the center of the screen, it seemed smaller than when it moved towards him.
That's because the grasper is farther when at the center of the screen.

Would a small. lightweight car be able to pass another vehicle quicker on the highway or would a big. heavy SUV be able to do so faster
the lightweight car.

A ring experiences less resistance sliding onto an index finger then sliding onto a middle finger.
It then stands to reason that the middle finger is more jagged

Jim is far away from his friend with a flashlight.
Jim can see that the light is getting brighter as he walks towards it.

Latoya was in a dark house but saw a room with a light on in the distance.
When she walks closer to it the light appears brighter.

Sara is cleaning her bathroom. Her tub is old and not as smooth as it used to be. She notices the sponge moves over the tile easier than the tub.
This is because the tub is worn and causes more friction.

Darrell's car gets very warm when he drives it on the rocky road in town, but stays cool when he drives it on the street.
The rocky road has more resistance than the street.

If a bike made of steel and a bike made of aluminum were racing
which would reach their top speed faster aluminum bike.

Bill and dan both throw a tennis ball.
Bill throws the ball a lot shorter distance making him less muscular.

The old woman was much weaker than the college athlete
so she threw the ball less far.

A grasshopper hops through tall grass and gets hung up, so he hops on black ice to glide faster.
He does this because black ice is smoother for his jumps.

Pat likes to eat salty snacks with sugary drinks while using the laptop. The mouse pad is sticky and bumpy with spills and crumbs. Pat uses more wrist effort to move the computer mouse over the pad. Pat places the mouse on a spiral notebook and the mouse effortlessly zigzags in all directions.
The mouse generates more heat as it slides over the mouse pad.

Nate couldn't slide the plate of food down the counter easily when it was dirty, but found it would go further when it was clean.
This is due to the clean countertop having less friction.

A truck is driving down an icy road and is moving very easy and quickly. When the truck pulls off that road and onto a sandy road, the truck moves with more difficulty.
The truck slowed on the sandy road because the sandy road had more friction.

Kevin noticed that his ping pong ball got hotter when he rolled it over his bed rather than rolling it over his table.
The ping pong ball travels further over table.

Jimbo's phone book is thicker then his pamphlet.
Which one will have more resistance to being torn in two? phone book.

Ron spins a top on a blanket that he has laid on the floor and notices that it doesn't spin very well. He then spins his top on the wood desk and watches it spin faster and faster.
The surface with more resistance is the blanket.

If a kitten is chasing a mouse around and both are running at the same speed. which will have travelled a greater distance if the kitten gives up the chase and the mouse keeps going
mouse.

Tim learned that a counter has higher resistance than a blanket while rolling his tomato across it.
Rolling the tomato across the blanket generates more heat

Kim liked to jog and walk in the park near her house.
She went to the park and wanted to get some exercise before her boyfriend came to visit, but didn't want to get too sweaty. She should walk.

Kim is pushing her baby in the stroller. She walks around the block on the sidewalk, but when she gets back to her gravel driveway, it has more friction.
Kim pushes the stroller at a lower speed when she is on the gravel.

A rat and a garter snake move at the same speed, but the rat got a five minute head start.
After an hour the rat will have gone further.

If a dung beetle runs faster then a cricket. which will travel a greater distance if they both run for 5 minutes
dung beetle.

Santana is singing as she walks down the road. As Santana walks passed a restaurant, the people in there can hear her loudly.
As Santana walks away singing, her voice gets softer.

Jim was fishing by the river when he noticed a cute bunny rabbit. He also noticed a crocodile. Just then, the rabbit did, too. It started bolting. Unfortunately, the crocodile had noticed the rabbit, too, and quickly snatched it up, crushing it into a bloody delightful meal.
This meal was served because the rabbit was slower.

Ken was experimenting with rolling his whiffle ball across different types of grass to measure the resistance. He noticed that tall grass seemed to have more resistance than mowed grass.
This means that his whiffle ball moves slower through tall grass.

Jen and Jess have ended their shift at the factory and are driving home. They're both driving the same speed, but Jen makes it home sooner than Jess does.
This is because Jen's home is closer to work.

Jessie walked to the store, while Jim drove to it.
Who would reach to the destination the fastest: Jim because he was driving.

Louis notices that when he pushes his book on the carpet, it doesn't go as far as when he pushes the book on the kitchen floor.
Which surface has greater resistance? carpet.

An empty dump truck and a dump truck full of iron ore start towards each other, as fast as they can, from opposite ends of a long street.
Which truck makes it 100 feet before the other truck? the empty dump truck.

Suppose you look into the sky.
Which star is easier to see? Sirius.

A cat moves slower through the river then through the jungle.
This means the cat heats up less in the jungle.

Jim and Kyle are riding their bikes.
Kyle stops at the store, but Jim keeps on. Who goes farther? Jim.

Mike's desk is not as rough as his table.
When sliding his textbook across both surfaces, he learned that the desk offered less resistance to the textbook.

Steve notices that when he skateboards over the sidewalk there is less resistance than when he skateboards over the boardwalk at the beach.
Steve will move faster when he skateboards over the sidewalk.

Walking with snowshoes on snow is softer then walking on grass.
This means the snowshoes will get hotter when walking on grass.

The piece of wood was thicker than the toothpick so
it was stronger.

Howard needed a new bed frame. He needed one that would hold a lot of weight.
Howard made sure that the frame was thick.

A falcon flying high experiences more resistance in a cloudy sky then in a clear sky.
This means the falcon gets less hot when flying in a clear sky.

When Jimbo bent a fresh reed is flexed nice and easy, but when he bent a dry reed it felt very brittle.
Which reed would be more likely to break? dry reed.

When looking in to the night sky we all know that Jupiter is larger than Venus but because Jupiter is further away
it appears smaller.

Mike found out that he can bend sheet metal a lot easier then he can bend a metal stud.
Which item is less likely to break as he bends it? metal stud.

An agate rolling in a dirt field moves slower then one rolling in an empty cave.
It seems likely that the agate will roll a greater distance in the empty cave.

Jeff is walking through the park. Betty is running on the same path.
After an hour, who has gone farther? Betty.

Tangled hair offers more resistance to a hair brush then clean hair.
This means the hair brush moves faster through the clean hair.

Jim and Peter are meeting to have some ice cream together. They both leave at the same time. Jim takes his bike and Peter decides to walk to the Ice cream place.
Who will arrive at the Ice cream place faster Jim.

Jane's earring rolled further whens he dropped it on her vanity then when she dropped it on her bath mat.
This means the bath mat has more friction

A tree trunk is thicker then a tree leaf.
Which part of the tree is the stronger one? trunk.

Lombardi jumped higher with her pogo stick on a trampoline versus mud puddles
because the mud puddles have more resistance.

Kim and Dan begin driving in a straight line at the same speed.
If Kim drives for half as much time as Dan, who will go a shorter distance? Kim.

Alice rolls a tennis ball and a bowling ball down a hill.
She notices that the tennis ball.

Joe rolls a ball down the roof where it speeds up, then falls onto the grass, rolls, and slows down.
The ball slowed down on the grass because it had greater resistance.

Elliot is working in a warehouse. He notices that he is able to push a handcart faster on the cement than on the carpet.
The handcart will generate more heat when Elliot pushes it over the carpet.

A tank and car both drive through the desert at 20 miles an hour but the car drives for a half hour and the tank drives for an hour
so the tank traveled a farther distance.

A man's boat is about to sink, so he throws his food and boxes of stuff overboard.
At which point would his boat be faster? After the stuff is thrown overboard.

Terrie leads her dog team to deliver some food and other things to someone in a snowbound cabin. Terrie's dogs pull the empty sled to a nearby supply station, then pull the loaded sled on to the snowbound cabin.
In which situation will the dogs have more difficulty in getting the sled moving swiftly? when the sled is weighed down with supplies.

Jane's caster wheel experiences low friction when rolling across a laminate floor and high friction when rolling across a tile floor.
Because of this, she knows that the laminate flo is smoother

Doug is bored with studying, so he begins manipulating some writing utensils on his desk. He sees that the plastic pen is bendier than the wooden pencil.
This means that which utensil is less likely to snap as he bends it? plastic pen.

A father and his 8 year old son were having a rock throwing competition to see who can throw it the farthest.
The son lost the competition because he is weaker.

A polished counter isn't a rough as a matte counter.
This means a sock that is slid across the polished counter will go a greater distance then one slid over a matte counter

Both the sun and Jupiter are massive but the sun has more mass
and therefore has stronger gravity.

Mike's toy car moves really fast when he pushes it, but his toy truck only creeps along slowly.
Which toy will move a greater distance in the same amount of time? toy car.

Alex rolls a ball of paper across her mattress and it barely moves. Then she rolls the paper across the tile floor and it moves pretty far.
The ball of paper moved better on the tile floor because it had less friction.

Kyle is on his way home.
As he gets closer to the city, the lights get brighter in the dark sky.

James learned that a bathtub is much smoother than a couch when he was experimenting with rolling his toothpick across different surfaces.
The toothpick moved slower over bathtub.

Ellie loves to play on the slides at the park. She notices that the rough slide takes her longer to go down than the smooth slide.
That's because the smooth slide has less resistance.

Mary needs to put a piece of plywood between her bed frame and her mattress. Her 2 children like to jump on the bed in the morning.
Which piece of plywood would be more likely to break when jumped on? the 1/2 plywood slab.

Mary discovered that her vanity is smoother than her counter by rolling her lipstick over them.
The lipstick moved slower over the counter.

Drew is trying to decide whether he should throw some socks away. A pair of blue socks feels very flimsy compared to a pair of black socks.
Which pair of socks is more likely to tear if they are worn? blue socks.

Jimbo and Milo grew up together. Both men always knew that Jimbo wasn't as strong as Milo.
If both men tossed a football, which could throw it a greater distance? Milo.

Jeff is riding his bike on a wooden walkway. He veers off and starts to ride on the grass. Jeff realizes that the grass more friction than the walkway did.
Jeff was able to ride the bike faster on the wooden walkway.

A snail
and hummingbird both travelled a mile; did the snail.

It's easy to stab a pin into a pin cushion, but it's hard to stab one into a pillow.
Which surface will make the pin get hotter when stabbing into it? pillow.

Kameron was walking through the forest breaking up sticks to use for the fire he picked up a thicker stick but was unable to break it up is this
because the thicker stick is stronger.

Isabella was rolling a lemon on a laminate floor and on the blanket. She saw that the lemon had low resistance on the laminate and higher resistance on the blanket.
When rolling on the blanket, the lemon will move a smaller distance than on the laminate.

Dana just got down running a marathon.
Alan just got done doing relaxing yoga. Who is sweating more? Dana.

The professional athlete was much stronger than the average per so n
so he could throw the shot put further distance

Donald pushed a squeegee across the windshield of his car, then he pushed the squeegee across the asphalt parking lot.
The squeegee moved faster across the windshield than it did across the asphalt because there was more resistance on the asphalt.

A per so n that is running will wind up sweating more in a normal day than an office worker
because they are exercising less.

Little Sally noticed that her hair brush slid a lot further across her smooth, glass mirror than across her rough stone.
She also noticed that her hair brush moved faster across the glass mirr.

Mark was driving through a construction zone where a loud drill was being used. He first had to drive right next to the construction site, then he turned onto a side road.
Where would the noise of the drill be the loudest? next to construction site.

Eric has two bowling balls. He notices the bigger one weighs more.
That is because it has a stronger gravity.

The old woman tried her hardest to throw the ball but could not throw it as far as the body builder
because she was weaker.

We put out a plastic slip and slide on our lawn. We shot water on the slip and slide. I took a running start and slid head first down the slide. I was traveling quickly. At the end of the slide, I continued onto the dry grass, but slowed down a lot.
I think that the surface that had less friction was the wet slip and slide.

Milo has always known that packed snow is smoother than loose snow because he rides his sleigh a lot.
This information has led him to believe that his sleigh will experience more friction over the loose snow.

A pizza sliding across a metal counter has low resistance, but one sliding across a stone counter has high resistance.
This means the pizza can slide a lot quicker over the metal counter.

Marty writes a letter on a sheet of paper. Later he tries using the pen to draw something on a tree outside. The tip of the pen produces more heat when he uses it against the tree.
This is because the paper offers less resistance.

An asteroid has a smaller mass then a planet.
This means the asteroid has a weaker gravity.

The thin per so n had much smaller arms than the muscular body builder
and therefore they were weaker.

Jill and her grandmother were walking and both hit a slick patch of ice and fell hard. Jill was bruised a little but nothing broke, while Jill's grandma broke her leg.
This is likely because Jill's grandmother's leg is less flexible.

Shaniqua fires an arrow from her compound bow while Jaleesa stands next to her and shoots a bullet from her gun. They watch as the arrow flies through the air, but the bullet goes so fast it can't be seen.
After a few seconds, which will have traveled less distance? the arrow.

Scientists found 2 new planets in a newly discovered solar system.
They concluded that Planet T would have a higher gravitational pull than Planet S because it had more mass.

Mary is walking away from the bar on the corner.
As she walks away, the music gets quieter.

Mike was walking downtown and stopped for a second. He noticed a loud noise coming from a bulldozer and a softer noise coming from a bus.
Which object was closer to him? bulldozer.

Mike likes to ride his rollerblades in the skating rink and at his home on the cement patio in the backyard. He found that the ride was smooth in the skating rink, but rough on the cement patio.
This means that the rollerblades move faster in the skating rink or on the.

Maria is a bartender. When she slides a glass across the wooden bar, she notices it is smooth. At home, her counter is stone and bumpy.
If she would slide the glass across both counters, which would have less friction? wood counter.

As Bob got closer to the LED light
it appeared brighter than when he was far away from it.

A butterfly can fly faster through open air then through bushes.
This means the butterfly creates less heat flying through the open air.

A computer scientist sneezes while they are working. Their mouse flies across the mousepad and across the table.
Why does the mouse go slow across the mousepad then faster across the table? the mousepad has more friction.

A beagle and a golden retriever are outside playing with their owner on a cool day. The beagle loves to run and fetch but the golden retriever just lays down in the shade.
Which dog will sweat more? beagle.

Terry and Brad are going to race. They each have twenty seconds to make it to the finish line.
Brad crosses the line within the twenty seconds, but Terry is unable to. The quicker runner is Brad.

Jim noticed that his saucer has much less resistance when pushing it through steam then when pushing it through water.
The saucer will heat up much more pushing it through water.

Terry is in much better shape than he was when he was in high school. Terry has played baseball since high school.
Terry throws the baseball further than in high school.

Sally noticed that her scooter moved much slower over s and then over a sidewalk. The s
and has more friction

Bill and Dan both throw a baseball.
Dans ball doesnt go as far as Bills. Is Dan weaker.

Mary noticed that her pencil got hotter when rubbing it in sandpaper than when rubbing it in cloth.
Does the sandpaper have more resistance?

Sara was trying to figure out how to make her daily chores faster. She discovered cleaning the bathroom floor could be done at the same time as the rest by sliding around with wet towels tied to her feet.
This is likely to work better than dry towels because wet towels provide less resistance.

Mike's cutting board is thinner then his table.
This means the cutting board is weaker

Bannon tossed the basketball on the pavement. He also tossed it in the sand. Bannon noticed that in the sand the basketball moved at a more sluggish speed than it did on the pavement.
To Bannon it appeared that less friction on the the basketball happened on the pavement.

A cloth chair seat felt warmer after Tim rubbed his hand over it trying to wipe off a girl's sweat, but trying it first on a plastic chair had less effect.
This is because the cloth had more resistance than the plastic?

A tape measure sliding across plywood has more resistance then one sliding across a writing desk.
Which surface will make the tape measure get hotter? plywood.

Major Tom, an astronaut, used to jump up and down on Earth, and he never got higher than a meter in the air. When his ship landed on Ceres, he jumped up and kept going and going higher and higher.
Why? Earth has greater mass.

Jennifer threw two footballs down the street. One landed nearby on the grass and didn't roll much. The other bounced several times, and rolled until it was far away.
Which ball looked smaller to Jennifer? far away ball.

Jim is a young boy who loves camping with his father. They often throw rocks into the river.
Who can throw the rocks the furthest? Jim's Father.

Running a sanding belt over polished metal creates less resistance then running one over raw metal.
This means that the raw metal is more rough

Mike had his lens cap fall off his camera one day. It seemed to roll smoothly down his shirt, but it rolled pretty rough down his pants leg.
He also noticed that it rolled slower down his pants leg.

A globe rolling around on a library floor experiences less resistance then one rolling around on a study floor.
Which floor will cause the globe to heat up less when rolled across it? library flo.

Mars has much weaker gravity than Jupiter because
it has less mass.

An envelope that is slid across a dresser gets rather hot, while one that is slid across a desk doesn't get very hot at all.
Which surface has more friction? dresser.

Karen loves to roll blueberries on the floors of her house. One day she tries rolling one on a plaid carpet in the living room and a crocheted rug in the dining room. She notices that the plaid carpet is smoother than the crocheted rug.
The blueberry rolls faster on the plaid carpet.

Rob couldn't hear the man talking while he was wearing his headphones because his headphones seemed louder
because they were nearer.

Kent is practicing for roller hockey. His team is practicing on the gym's wood floor. He notices that the puck gets less heat when he hits it in the gym than when he is practicing alone at his home on the concrete patio.
The puck will travel farther when Kent hits it across the wood flo.

Kevin figured out that his spatula heats up much less when sliding it over a countertop than when sliding it over a frying pan.
Sliding his spatula over frying pan will force it to move slower

A new bullet train in Japan experiences low friction when traveling on open track compared to traveling through a tunnel.
This is the reason why the bullet train can move at a higher rate of speed on the open track.

A per so n that is cycling will generally sweat more than a per
so n walking

Belle has two horses; a grey one and a white one. The grey one is fat, the white one is thin.
When racing, which horse will get up to speed more quickly? white horse.

A computer mouse slides at a slower rate of speed over a felt pad then over a metal pad.
This means the metal pad is more smooth

Milo's sword heats up much less cutting through a watermelon compared to meat.
This led him to realize that the meat was more rough

Ted is playing a game outside with a bowling ball. The ball moves with much more resistance than when he rolls it down the wooden alley.
The ball will produce more heat when it rolls on the grass.

Sarah spilled beans on the kitchen floor. She is sweeping them with a broom. The beans shoot from the broom to the other side of the kitchen. There are pieces of paper on the floor next to the trash can there. The beans tumble across a couple sheets of paper but that's all.
Which surface has more friction, the pieces of paper?.

The lawnmower went faster over the moss. versus the tall grass
because the moss has less resistance.

Jen and Mike were playing ping pong. When Jen dropped the ping pong ball on the table, she noticed it rolled slower than when she dropped it on the tiled floor.
She noticed that the ping pong table had higher resistance.

Mike rolled his marble on a skating rink and noticed it didn't get hot at all. He then rolled it on a bed and it got pretty hot.
This means the skating rink is more smooth

A pickup truck moves much slower over weeds than over a beach.
The pickup truck will travel further over beach.

A skateboard's wheels get less hot riding through an auditorium compared to a concert hall.
Which surface offers greater resistance? concert hall.

Milo was ice skating one day when he realized he was moving slower over old ice then over new ice.
This means that the new ice had less resistance

A kettle sliding across a gas oven has a smooth ride, but one sliding across an electric oven has a rough ride.
Which oven is providing more friction to the kettle? electric oven.

Mike can slide his CD a greater distance across his coffee table then across his dining table.
This means that his CD will heat up more when slid across the dining table

Avery rides his bike through two puddles. When he rides his bike through the mud puddle, his bike moves very slowly. When he rides his bike through the rain puddle, his bike speeds up.
The bike slows down in the mud puddle because there is more friction.

Nancy is walking away from her friends house. When she gets to the stop sign, she turns around.
The house looks smaller than when she left.

Mary's kitchen floor is slicker then her hallway floor. She was feeding her dogs one day and some kibble slid across both surfaces.
Which surface caused the kibble to heat up less? kitchen flo.

Jimbo and James are both at the gym working out.
If Jimbo is lifting weights and James is stretching, which person is sweating more? Jimbo.

A saw will produce more heat
because of friction when sawing through a metal pipe.

Becky thew a brick across the yard and it got almost as far as the fence.
Her little brother imitated her and thew a brick as well, but it didn't get as far as the one that Becky threw. Becky has more strength.

Devan is walking in the woods looking at the city in the distance.
As he approaches the city, the lights from it get brighter.

A jackrabbit can run a much greater distance over the open desert then in the city wash.
This means the jackrabbit heats up more running in the city wash.

Tim's boat moves slower when cruising in the ocean and faster when cruising in the river.
This means that the ocean is rougher

Donna is comparing Pluto with Earth.
Donna knows that because it has less mass, this has weaker gravity as well. Pluto.

John drops a quarter on the ground. It quickly rolls across the pavement and onto the grass, where it stops.
The quarter moved rapidly across the pavement yet stopped on the grass because the grass had more friction.

Kerry and Felicia are rollerskating at the beach. Kerry stops to get an ice cream cone.
An hour later, who has gone further? Felicia.

Jamal is able to swim his usual speed, but he's feeling sluggish on Monday so he cuts his swimming workout short. On Tuesday, Jamal feels much more energetic, so he swims for a longer period of time.
On which day will Jamal swim fewer laps? Monday.

Suppose a space ship flew close to Jupiter and also flew close to Venus, which is much smaller.
Which planet would be less likely to pull the space ship towards it? Venus.

A car is slipping and moving very easily all over an icy road. On a dry road, the same car doesn't slide around and it takes more effort for the car to move from side to side.
The icy road has less friction than the dry road.

A hockey player was testing out a couple of new sticks. He noticed that the blue hockey stick had much more give and bend to it than the white hockey stick did.
Which hockey stick is more likely to break during play? the white hockey stick.

Jane's car moves a lot quicker over a parking lot then over a forest.
The parking lot has less resistance

Smokey the bear ran fast on flatl and but had to scale the trees slowly
because they had more resistance.

Stan was throwing marbles by himself in the kitchen, and saw that when they landed on the linoleum floor they scattered all over, but when he released them over the carpet, they didn't go nearly as far.
He observed there was more resistance to the marbles on the carpet.

Milo's shovel heats up less when plunging it into loose dirt compared to packed dirt.
This made him realize that the packed dirt offered more resistance

The boat glided across the calm water. and rumbled through the foamy bubbles
because the calm water was more smooth.

The red balloon popped right near my face and scared me so much while the blue only scared me slightly because it was floating away before it popped.
Which balloon appeared to make more noise red balloon.

Parker is racing his friend Dean. Parker is thin and Dean is heavy. They both run for one minute straight as quickly as they can.
The person who wins the race is Parker.

As the truck left the street and pulled away
it appeared smaller.

My shoes move much quicker through wet pavement than dry s
and because wet pavement is less friction.

The basketball rolled faster across the court floor than the rocky ground.
The court floor is More smooth.

Lisa was playing with two model rockets. She shot off the red one and the black one at the same time. After 30 seconds the black one was higher in the sky.
Which had more speed? the black one.

Mike can push his balloon further along his shaved back then along his hairy back.
This means that his hairy back is more rough

Dennis is rolling two marbles down the sidewalk. He rolls them both at the same time, in the same way.
The blue marble goes a longer distance down the sidewalk than the green one does. The faster marble is blue.

The moon creates a weaker gravitational force than the Earth because
it has less mass than the Earth.

Fred's axe heated up a lot more cutting through firewood than cutting through cake.
This means that the cake has less friction

Two identical cars attempt to accelerate as fast as possible.
If one car is empty and one car is full of bricks, which one will accelerate more slowly? Full car.

Milo's comb experiences more friction running it through beard hair compared to running it through head hair.
This means that the head hair is smoother

Stacy is practicing pitching. She is young and just started learning. Kari has been pitching for years, and is helping to train Stacy.
When both of them pitch, the person whose ball will go further is Kari.

Mary performed an experiment with her basketball. She determined that the basketball rolled a longer distance when it was rolled over gym flo.
The asphalt had a much rougher surface and created more friction.

Beth tosses a rubber ball for her dog down a rocky path, where the ball barely rolls. Then she tosses the ball down a smooth path, and the ball rolls very far.
The smooth path offers less resistance.

Mike's coffee can gets less hot when he slides it across his kitchen counter then when he slides it across his kitchen floor.
This means the kitchen counter is more lustrous

A ticket slid across a floor mat makes it heat up more than sliding it across a dashboard.
This means the dashboard has less friction

Jim learned that an outfield is smooth while an infield is rough by tossing his baseball bat across them.
The baseball bat rolled a greater distance over the outfield.

Darren is throwing things at a wall.
He throws a blanket and a teacup. Which will break? teacup.

Janet is rolling marbles down a marble counter. Two marbles are rolled together; one blue, one yellow. The blue marble goes further.
Which marble traveled longer? blue marble.

Ainsley is skateboarding around town. First she skateboards on the dirt road by her house, then she skateboards on the sidewalk in town.
Ainsley skates faster on the sidewalk because the sidewalk has less friction than the dirt road.

The artist ran the paintbrush roughily over the sandpaper but smoothly over lined paper.
This is because the line paper was more smooth.

Since Earth has a greater mass then Pluto. which planet emits more of a gravitational field
Earth.

Jim can throw the frisbee a greater distance through a calm sky compared to through a windy sky.
He then realized that the calm sky has less resistance

A 45 year-old woman and a 21 year-old baseball player are throwing baseballs in the field. They have to go get each ball that they throw.
Who will have to walk the shortest distance to get their balls? The 45 year-old.

Ken is playing pool. He knocks a ball off the table and notices that it rolls faster on the wooden floor than on the pool table.
This is because the pool table is rougher.

Milo has noticed that a polished floor is smoother than a pitted floor.
This means that dragging his pallet across a polished flo offers less resistance

Jeff and Kate are at the gym working out. Jeff is working out more than Kate is, because Kate recently broke her foot.
As a result Jeff is sweating more than Kate.

Jim's razor can travel further over his skin then over his hair.
This means that the razor heats up more when moving over skin.

Venus is much less massive than the Sun. therefore less things are attracted to it because
it has weaker gravity.

Pushing a safety pin into thin paper is easier then pushing it into thick paper.
Which paper will allow the safety pin to plunge into it at a faster rate of speed? thin paper.

Lisa is enjoying her vacation at the beach. She is watching the sail boats in the water close by but she can barely see the motorboats that are far away.
Which boats appear to be smaller Motor boats.

Toddler Bobby rode his tricycle faster on the mulch than rocks.
The mulch has less resistance.

Joe and Bob are seeing who can lift the most weight. Joe's arms are much thinner than Bob's are.
Who will lift the most? Bob.

Adam's rooomate bought a new stereo, which was powerful and loud! To avoid irritation from the constant noise, Adam decided to move to a room on the other side of the house.
His new room was nice and quiet because the stereo was now a greater distance away.

A soccer ball kicked in the backyard rolls further then when it is kicked in the front yard.
This means the front yard heats the ball up more

Jessica rolls a cylinder block on a surface made of LEGOs and a linoleum floor. She notices that when the cylinder travels over the LEGOs, it goes a shorter distance than when on the linoleum.
This is because the linoleum is smoother than the LEGOs.

A panda experiences low friction walking around a parking lot then walking around a bamboo grove.
This means the panda can shamble much greater distances over the parking lot.

A hollow cannonball and a solid cannonball made of the same material and diameter are shot with the same force from a cannon.
Which ball will have a lower acceleration? Solid cannonball.

Joe leaned on a metal handrail with his sweater as he moved down the stairs, and he slid against it easily. Later Joe brushed by a wooden beam and noticed it pulled at him and the sweater more.
Joe's sweater would have gotten warmer when it rubbed up against the wood beam.

A military tank is much heavier than a golf cart.
As a result the tank accelerates slower than the golf cart.

The boy rolled the billiard ball on the felt pool table and then on the wooden floor. He noticed the ball rolled a greater distance on the wooden floor than it did on the felt table.
This means the surface with more resistance is the felt table.

When I was near the laser it was very bright. but when I got further away
it was much dimmer.

The muscular guy was much stronger than the skinny guy
so he was able to throw a ball further.

Two horses have been outside in a corral for one hour. The palomino is covered in sweat and the pinto is dry.
What happened? the palomino got more exercise.

The computer mouse moves better on the mouse pad than on the table
because it's more smooth.

Kyle is trying to break down some trash to get rid of. He is attempting to shatter a cardboard box and a glass dish.
The thing that will shatter first is the glass dish.

A reed is more flexible then a stick.
If bent, which object will be less likely to break? reed.

An airplane and a train leave from the same location and travel for three hours.
Which traveled the least number of miles? Train.

Gabby noticed that her tricycle moves faster in a cement basement then in the grassy backyard.
This is because the basement floor surface is smoother.

Molly set her volleyball on the roof of her car and gave it a push. The volleyball rolled faster across the car roof than it did when she pushed the volleyball along the sand of the volleyball court.
She deduced that the surface with less friction is the metal car roof.

A stick of gum that is slid across a classroom desk travels pretty slow compared to a stick of gum that is pushed across a home office desk.
Which surface is the most rough? classroom desk.

Ted was riding his bike in the park. When he was on the cement path, he was able to zip around the park more quickly than on the grass.
The bike heated up more when it traveled on the grass.

Tom is walking toward the lighthouse on the beach.
As he gets closer, the light is brighter.

Max was mad and kicked the screen door to his house. His foot went right through it. He next kicked the main house door. He hurt his foot and not the door.
That's because the house door is thicker.

Both a man in a sports car and a man on roller skates travel for five minutes down a racetrack.
Which man covers more distance in that five minutes? the man in the sports car.

Bill drops a boulder and a balloon.
The balloon falls slowly while the boulder falls fast meaning the boulder has lots of weight.

Sheila is pulling her little brother in a wagon. Shelia struggles to pull the wagon across the sand, but finds that it is easier to pull the wagon across the grass.
The grass is easier to move the wagon over because the grass has less friction.

The thick cable was much bigger in diameter than the thin cable therefore
it was much stronger.

Astronomers discovered two new planet that they thought might contain life. One was in which the planets differed was that the first one (Planet X) had 10% more mass than the other (Planet Z).
If a particular boulder weighs 800 pounds on Planet X, then it will weigh more on planet Z.

A snake can travel a greater distance before getting tired over the desert then through the forest.
This must mean that the desert is smoother

Mythbusters checked the resistance of a bullet.
When they fired it, they found that there is higher friction in Water.

Some friends are at a local river that has rope swings that can be used to leap into the water. They notice that the old rope swing is frayed in parts and very thin, while a new rope swing nearby is not frayed and much thicker.
Which rope swing would be more likely to snap under the force of swinging? old rope swing.

Mike knows that his straw bends easier then his stick.
Which object is less likely to break when being bent? straw.

Kathy made a discovery while rolling a pea around on a plate and a bowl. She realized that the pea moved faster on the plate.
This means that the bowl has more resistance

Tired of studying, John shoves his math book away on his metal desk and it slides off the far end and lands on the floor. Curious, he picks the book up and shoves it across his wooden kitchen table, and it doesn't go as far.
This is because the metal desk is smoother.

A tree in the forest crashes down. And a large tree in your backyard also crashes down.
Which tree makes a louder noise? Backyard Tree.

Alice and Mac both have to get to a meeting by a certain time. Mac enjoys walking everywhere, but Alice insists on driving herself.
Who is more likely to get to the meeting the earliest? Alice.

A janitor is working after hours to mop the floors of the middle school. Some of the floors throughout the school have recently been stripped and waxed so that they'll look nice again. While the janitor is mopping the classroom he is having to work extra hard to push his mop across the floor, but when he begins mopping the hallway, his mop glides effortlessly across the floors.
The floor that was most recently waxed should exhibit the least friction, so that would be the hallway.

Rico is on his skateboard. He practices racing, and on the muddy path, he can finish a race in ten minutes. On the clear street, Rico finishes the race in five minutes.
Rico can finish the race faster on the clear street because the clear street has less friction.

Ron is at the gym lifting weights. Tony joins him an hour into his workout.
They leave at the same time. Who sweat more? Ron.

Jerry was hitting a few golf balls. When he hit them in the short grass he noticed the balls would go at a higher speed than when he would hit them in the brush.
The balls that Jerry hit in the short grass would go farther.

Mary's ice cream has an easy time sliding around in a bowl, but a hard time sliding around in a cone.
Which surface will make the ice cream melt faster? cone.

If Henry isn't as strong as Matt and both throw a baseball as hard as they can. which per so n will have thrown the ball the lesser distance
Henry.

Mark is walking towards a forest and spots a large tree from 100 yards away. He continues to walk towards the tree, stands two yards away and looks at it.
At which point will the tree appear larger? 2 yards away.

Mike had study hall fourth period and read a book, while Matt had gym where he had to do laps.
Mike will sweat less the Matt.

Travon wanted to do his computer homework on the floor instead of at the table so he could watch TV at the same time. He noticed that it was a lot harder as his mouse moved again the carpet with less ease and was definitely not as smooth and fast as the table was.
Travon figured there was more resistance with the carpet.

The cat runs faster on tile then cat litter. So
presumably tile is smoother.

Milo realized that jungle is rougher than grass.
He then realized that his machete would experience more resistance cutting through jungle.

Jimmy noticed that riding his sled on grass generated more friction than riding his sled over snow.
Riding his sled over snow generates less heat

Milo can throw his tennis ball a greater distance through air then through water.
This means the air is smoother

The bicycle went a shorter distance than the car in the hour that they raced because
it was slower.

A fork encounters much less resistance pushing through stew than pushing through steak.
This means that the fork will move slower through steak.

Ann and Ted decide to see who can throw a Frisbee a greater distance. Ann has been lifting weights and her arms are showing some definition, while Ted has been inactive and not doing any workouts at all, so his arms are small and a little flabby.
Who will throw the Frisbee a lesser distance from the throwing spot? Ted.

Tom held a single chopstick with both his hands and was able to snap it with little problem. He then tried to do the same with twenty, but was unable to break them.
The single chopstick snapped because it was weaker then the bundle of twenty.

John and Kate live in the same house and work in the same building. John rides his bicycle to work and Kate walks to work.
Who will require a smaller amount of time to get to work? John.

A martial arts expert wants to demonstrate the force of his hands by striking a couple of boards. When stacked next to each other the white board is twice as tall as the red board.
Which board will be more difficult for the expert to break? white board.

Sandy's workouts are short and sweet, but her friend Margaret spends hours every day working out.
Of the two friends, who perspires less? Sandy perspires less.

A storm was approaching as a family sat in their home listening to the thunder. The thunder was not loud at first, but in time it was extremely loud and frightening.
This is because when the thunder was farther away it sounded less noisy.

A man was standing next to a street light
and there was a car with headlights on in the distance that appeared dimmer than the street light

Jordan pulls a wagon across a pebbled floor to get to the gym. When she pulls the wagon across the gym floor, the wagon is easier to pull without as much effort.
The gym floor offers less resistance.

A large asteroid was aiming for Earth. Meanwhile a small rock dropped from the sky.
Which had more of a gravity pull, the large asteroid or the.

Milo realized he has to slice his katana slower through wood then through melon.
His katana heats up more slicing through wood.

Marcie hates to perspire, so she decides to cut down the length of her workout sessions with her trainer.
Spending less time in a workout means Marcie will sweat less.

The dog could run as fast as the bicycle but he could run for a shorter amount of time
so he traveled less distance.

A truck is driving down a paved street and can go ten feet every second. The truck drives off onto some grass lawn and can only go five feet every second.
The truck is slower on the grass lawn because the lawn has more resistance.

A mouse creates less friction running over dirt then running over gravel.
The mouse also creates more heat running over gravel.

Kim goes to the grocery store to buy a few things. He puts 3 bottles of water in a paper bag and 3 bottles in a textile bag.
Which bag is more likely to break as he carries the bottles of water inside the house paper bag.

Miriam was playing lacrosse in the backyard. She flung the ball and it rolled slowly on the lawn, then quicker when going across the concrete deck floor.
Which surface gave less resistance to the ball? concrete deck.

A car moves slower in the jungle then over the mountains.
This means the jungle are rougher

Jasper is carrying his nephew in the park. Then it's his niece's turn. His niece is five years older and weighs more.
Who has more of a gravity pull? the niece.

Jupiter has a much stronger gravitational pull on debris in space compared to Mercury
it has stronger gravity.

The mass of Mars is greater then that of Venus.
Which planet emits stronger gravity? Mars.

A tire rim can roll a greater distance across a garage floor then across a driveway.
Which surface gives a bumpier ride to the tire rim? driveway.

Emma noticed it was much more painful to slide off a rubber band from her hair than a slipperier coated band.
This is due to the lower resistance of the coated band.

Two identical airplanes, except for their colors, are in the sky. The black and white one looks smaller than the blue one.
Why? the black and white one is higher in the sky.

Michael's car is stuck in the mud and he's waiting for a tow truck to come help him. Michael looks off in the distance and can see some headlights approaching and their light illuminates a small distance in front of them. As the lights get very close, the lights illuminate the entire road and some distance in front of them.
In which situation do the headlights appear more powerful? when they're up close.

A glass box is less flexible than a leather bag so
it is more breakable.

A pencil experiences more resistance when moving over a sweater then over sandpaper.
This means that the pencil will get hotter moving over the sandpaper.

An explosion happens on Mars.
And explosion also happens on earth. Which explosion is quieter? Mars.

There is a storm raging outside. When the storm is right about the house, it is deafening.
As the storm begins to blow away it is quieter.

Kyle takes his sled out for the day and goes down two hills. He slowly sleds down a grassy hill, then quickly sleds down a snowy hill.
The snowy hill was better for sledding because it had less friction.

The wheels of a shopping cart heat up quite a bit when rolling through the parking lot, but quite a bit less when rolling around on the store floor.
Which surface is providing less friction? store flo.

Jeremy is playing with a basketball in the gym. He rolls it across the gym floor to the equipment room and it easily rolls in. Later he is playing outside with the basketball with a friend. He rolls it across the grass, but it seems like it doesn't want to go over the rough surface.
The basketball will generate less heat when it is rolled across the gym flo.

Engineers have developed some new filaments for use as parts of different structures. Through their research, they notice that a red filament is much thinner than a blue filament.
Which of these filaments would be less likely to withstand strain? red filament.

The torpedo so ared through the air quicker than through s and because
it has less friction.

The conductor switched his train to the railway for a faster ride.
This is because the track is more friction.

The helicopter quickly glided in high altitude.
The river water slowed it down too much because it had higher resistance.

A worker knows that a beam provides more resistance then a roof.
This means the worker is forced to move a lot slower on the beam.

Jane tested a tennis ball on two different surfaces, observing the different results. First, she skidded a tennis ball across a slick hard court, and then across a shaggy grass court.
Skidding produces more heat on which surface? grass court.

Vicky tried to bend a rubber tube into a circle. She then tried to do the same thing with a glass tube. One of them bent into a circle and the other one broke.
Which one did she successfully bend into a circle? the rubber tube.

A toilet paper roll sliding along a living room floor gets hotter then one sliding across a bathroom floor.
Which surface has the most friction? living room flo.

Tim's likes how his tongue feels against the jello because of its lesser resistance. compared to his toast
His tongue moves faster.

Brian found a wet sponge in the kitchen sink. He noticed that when he slides the sponge across the hardwood floors, it moves quicker than if he were to slide the sponge across shag carpeting.
This is because the surface with more friction is shag carpeting.

A toy truck is pushed across a rug and moves one inch forward. The same toy truck is pushed across a mirror and moves forward two feet.
The toy truck moved further on the mirror because it had less friction.

The bartender knows that the bar is smoother than the table.
When he slides the wine glass across the bar it experiences less resistance

When Bill was driving his truck with his trailer he noticed that it was much slower than without the trailer this is because
it was heavier.

John is driving to get to his parents from the holidays. on his way there he sees a large water tower in his rearview mirror. as he continues to drive
that water tower will appear smaller.

Teddy rolls a bowling ball over the wood floor, and then over the dirt outside. The ball goes farther over the wood floor.
This is because the dirt is bumpier.

Terri notices that her skis move faster on dry snow than on wet snow.
The reason this happens is because wet snow has more resistance.

The tire rolled much slower once it left the dirt road and got into the brush.
This is because there was much less friction on the dirt road.

Kate's toy creates low friction when sliding over a counter and high friction when sliding over a floor.
Kate's toy will move faster over counter.

Harold knows that when he rides his skateboard over gritty pavement it has more friction then when he rides it over swept pavement.
This means that his skateboard can't go as fast over gritty pavement.

Rebecca heard two birds chirping in the forest. One was on a tree nearer to her and the other was on a tree far away.
Which bird sounded louder? nearer bird.

A baseball is hit on the ground through the infield dirt and on to the outfield grass. When the ball reaches the grass it slows down and stops.
This is because the grass has more resistance.

Chad is deciding which planet has more mass. He looks at enormous Jupiter and tiny Pluto.
The planet that has more mass is Jupiter.

A spoon generates heat when rubbing it rapidly against bare skin, but less against a silk shirt.
The smoother surfaces must be the shirt?.

Marley sees her friend across the street. Her friend looks tiny.
When her friend approaches to greet her, Marley sees that the friend is larger.

Melanie is attending a special occasion. As she gets out of the car, she hears her gown being torn.
The gown is likely? Satin Gown.

New York City just installed new train tracks to increase the efficiency of their railcars. The railcars produce 20% less heat because of the reduced friction of the new tracks versus the old weathered tracks.
Which rail tracks will the train ride further if pushed with an equal amount of force new tracks.

A concrete slab isn't as flexible as a rubber sheet.
Which object is more likely to break if bent? concrete slab.

A truck has a much easier time driving through an empty lot than driving through a forest.
The truck generates less heat driving through empty lot.

A crayon can be dragged further across notebook paper then across construction paper.
This means that the construction paper is more rough

A turtle weighs more then a mouse.
This means that the mouse can get up to top speed quicker when running.

A boat captain gets disoriented at sea and tries to find his way back to land. He sees a faint dot of light from a lighthouse off in the distance and sets his course toward the lighthouse. In time the light becomes stronger and brighter as he approaches shore.
This means that the more faint light looked to be coming from the lighthouse in the distance.

When Kelsey was playing with her dolls she found that Barbie was more flexible than Skipper
and therefore less breakable.

Sue is walking on the beach.
As she walks away from the ocean, it is harder to hear the waves on the shore.

Tony and Alex are riding motorcycles across the country.
Tony rides until early afternoon, but Alex rides until nightfall. Who rode farther? Alex.

A brown mouse and a black mouse each run through 50 foot tunnels as quickly as they can. The black mouse made it to the other end in a shorter amount of time than the brown mouse.
Which mouse couldn't run as fast? the brown mouse.

The funny seal danced around the ship deck slowly. but flew quickly through the water
because the water had less resistance.

Rolling a boulder down a field creates less friction then rolling it down a mountainside.
This means that the boulder will get hotter rolling over the mountainside.

Two friends race their bikes on a dirt path and on a paved path. The friend racing on the paved path finishes before the friend racing on the dirt path.
The path with more resistance is dirt path.

Dom and Brian race their fast cars down a quarter mile stretch of road.
Dom's car is faster than Brian's. Who wins the race? Dom.

The sun is much closer to earth than the stars
so the stars appear dimmer.

Jane and Dirk are roommates living in the same house.
If they take the same bus at the same time in the same bus stop, who will travel a shorter distance if Jane gets out of the bus one stop before Dirk does? Jane.

A rug has more friction then a coffee table.
This means that sliding a remote control across the coffee table will make it heat up less then sliding it across a rug

Don is taking his tractor to the farm. He drives carefully along the smooth road and turns down a bumpy dirt path leading to the farm.
The tires of the tractor will generate less heat on the road.

Mike is standing closer to a flashlight then to a lamp.
Which object seems brighter to him? flashlight.

The boy threw the baseball in the rain and it didn't go far. He threw the sand baseball in the clear air and it went 20 ft longer distance.
The rain air has more resistance.

Driving a semi truck through a weigh station makes the tires heat up less then driving one through a parking lot.
This means the semi truck must move slower through the parking lot.

Jimbo's car can cruise along extremely fast on the autobahn, but not very fast at all on a highway.
This means the highway creates more resistance

John doesn't stretch before playing basketball. Sue does.
Who is more likely to break or pull a muscle? John.

Angela rides her bike home from school each day. Her bike tires are usually full of air, but one day she notices that one is somewhat deflated. She can't ride nearly as fast on the deflated tire.
After 10 minutes of riding, in which situation would Angela have traveled less distance? When riding on a deflated tire.

Mel is going jogging in the mornings, and watches tv on the couch at night.
Mel perspires more in the morning.

The metal bar was much more flexible once it had been heated so
it was less breakable.

Steve undertook an exercise and diet program and lost a good amount of weight over several weeks. One thing Steve observed was how much more difficult it was to get his bike going fast when he was heavy than it was now that he had lost some weight.
This means that when he weighed more his bike was slower to get up to speed.

If Jonas is looking at the night sky and can see all the planets in the so lar system. Saturn will appear smaller than Mars
because Saturn is further away from Earth.

Tim is playing road hockey with his friends. His dad says they need to get off the road. Tim and his friends try to play on the grass. The puck goes dozens of feet on the road, but barely a tenth that on the grass.
That's because the road is smoother.

A soccer ball has distinctly less mass then a planet.
Which item emits a weaker gravitational field? soccer ball.

Chris is walking to work, and so is Steve. They are both walking about ten miles an hour, but Chris's work is six minutes away, while Steve's is ten minutes away.
The person with a shorter commute is Chris.

A sand dollar sliding across a beach has more friction then one sliding across scrub.
This means the sand dollar heats up more across the scrub.

Robert plays with his toy jeep in the house. First he pushes it across the shag carpet and the jeep goes slowly. Then Robert pushes the toy jeep across the tile floor and the jeep moves gently.
The jeep moved better on the tile floor because it had less resistance.

If you were to bend two stick which would break first
the dry stick.

When the man was standing next to the dog his bark was very loud. but as he got further away
it became quieter.

The koala dashed up the palm tree so fast. but couldn't grasp the cactus well
The cactus was less smooth.

Jim's marble rolls faster on a table compared to a floor.
This means that the table is smoother

Jim's dress shoes slide around more on a dance floor then on his living room floor.
This means his dress shoes move faster over the dance flo.

Mary knows that a bucket is not as rough as a pail.
Which surface will allow her popcorn to slide around more? bucket.

Imagine standing on Venus and Jupiter.
If you looked into the sky at the sun which planet would the sun look the largest? Venus.

Sasha is brushing her dogs' fur. One dog has course hair. The other has fine hair. Sasha notices that the dog with fine hair is easier to brush.
This is because the fine hair has lower friction.

An arrow penetrating a stump plunges quicker into the wood then one penetrating a live tree.
This means the shaft of the arrow will get warmer penetrating the live tree.

Tandy discovered that air is smoother than water by using his fan in both substances.
His fan heated up more in the water.

A car is faster than the average bicycle so which would go further in an hour
Car.

The 2018 Porsche got stuck in the gravel pit but raced up to 200 mph on the motor track.
This is because the gravel pit had more resistance.

Tom tried skating in his backyard because he though hard bricks would be a good surface, but found it was so much bumpier than a concrete surface.
The caused him to skate much slower than on the concrete he'd skated on previously.

Tony needs to use a really strong rope to pull his friend out of a tunnel.
When choosing which rope to use, Tony will therefore pick out the wide rope.

A rocket blasting off through a cloudy sky gets really hot, while a rocket blasting off through a misty sky doesn't get very hot.
This means the cloudy sky is rougher

A car company wants to start producing a new car. Their two options for the material of the body of the car are steel or carbon fiber.
If everything else about the car is the same, which car will accelerate slower? the steel car.

The pickup truck that was empty was much lighter than the cement truck so
it was faster.

Carla is driving a test car over different surfaces. She drives the car over a pile of pillows and the car drives over them easily. Carla drives the car over a pile of rocks, and the car goes a little slower.
The car went easier over the pile of pillows because there was less friction.

When Milo rolls his doorknob across the entryway it goes a greater distance then when he rolls it across his backyard.
This means that the entryway is smoother

Ken is standing near a tower, while Allie takes a picture of him.
The tower appears bigger to Ken.

The kite flew freely through ocean air. but barely moved through the thick smoke because
it had more resistance.

Owen and Jerry are both snails. They both move at the same speed but Owen travels twice as long as Jerry does.
Who traveled the lesser distance? Jerry.

An airplane landed on landing strip and after it touched down, the airplane continued rolling on it's wheels for a distance. Later that day the same airplane took another flight, but this time it had an emergency landing on a rocky field. The airplane was able to roll a greater distance on it's wheels when it landed on the landing strip.
Both times the pilot felt the wheels of the airplane and noticed that the wheels were hotter when the airplane landed on the rocky field.

The space scientist worked out some equations for launching a spaceship from the moon and also worked out some equations for launching a spaceship from the Earth.
She found that launching the spaceship from the Earth would require more thrust due the greater mass of the Earth and thus the gravitational pull of the Earth that is higher than the gravitational pull of the moon.

When he rode to work on his new scooter, John managed to be early several times. It was so much better than his frequent tardiness when riding his old scooter.
Which scooter allowed for a quicker ride to work for John, the new scooter.

Jupiter is much bigger than Mercury.
On which planet would you weigh more? Jupiter.

Officer Patrick raised his flashlight and approached Rosie. When he reached her, she complained that the glare of the flashlight was hurting her eyes.
To Rosie, when would the flashlight have been the brightest? When it was near.

It is always easier to cut through a thin string than a tree trunk
because the string is weaker.

Becky rolls a marble on a glass floor, and the marble goes very fast. When she tries rolling the marble on a carpeted rug, the marble barely moves.
The marble had better friction on the carpeted rug.

Jackson is standing under his porch light and the night around him is lit up.
Jackson walks away from his porch into the woods, and the night around him is darker.

The ground in the dog park is more smooth then the ground in the city park.
This means that when Mike's dog collar falls across the dog park it has less resistance then when it falls across the city park

Jim learned that his dogs can pull his dogsled a much greater distance over a snowy path then over the concrete lot in front of his house.
He wonders if concrete lot has more resistance.

A lifter uses a barbell, but moves a jump rope in a wider arc.
The object likely to travel further is the jump rope.

Polly and Sally were at the indoor wall climbing facility. After 2 hours Polly was covered in sweat and Sally was practically dry.
Which of the girls had gotten more exercise? Polly.

Jim ran over a nail on his bicycle and got a flat tire. David ran over the same nail in his car and his tire didn't get flat.
Why did Jim get a flat tire but David did not? Jim's tire was thinner.

A group of kids are at a music festival. They are in the campground. They can hear one band to the left playing rock and another band ahead of them playing hip hop. They can hear the rock band a lot more clearly.
Which band is closer? the rock band.

A man punches a tire and a wood board for a demonstration. The board if very stiff.
Which object do you think is more likely to break? Wood Board.

Glenn rolls a marble on a table and the marble moves easily. Glenn rolls a marble on the carpet and it moves slowly and not very far.
The marble rolled easily on the table because there was less friction.

The is very bright and the stars aren't as bright.
Which is further away the stars?.

A truck experiences less of a heat increase when driving on a city road then when driving on a logging road.
This means the truck can drive a greater distance on the city road.

Two cars were racing, the red car was way ahead of the blue car.
The blue car appeared to be lesser and at a greater distance.

A baby experiences less friction crawling in his playpen then crawling in the living room.
Which surface will force the baby to crawl at a lower rate of speed? living room.

A comet has been flung to the center of the solar system between the Sun and Mercury. The Sun is magnitudes larger in terms of mass than is Mercury.
Which body has the higher amount of gravitational pull and will pull the comet into its orbit? The Sun.

The children enjoyed the parade.
They saw that the band that is closer is louder.

Janet is testing how much mass objects have. She is currently testing between a metal rod and a paper crane. She drops both from six feet in the air at the same time.
Which has stronger gravity? metal rod.

The balloon will float in the air if I let it go however it i get go of this ball it will fall straight to the ground.
Which has a weaker gravity balloon.

Mike's bike weighs more then his skates.
Which object will accelerate slower? bike.

A spatula experiences no resistance on an oily frying pan but a lot of resistance on a clean one.
The spatula will move faster on an oily pan.

Mary can lift more weight with her arms then Jim can.
When they head out to the field to throw baseballs, which one will be able to throw a greater distance? Mary.

Jane and her sisters were playing at the campground at night. She saw one flashlight that appeared bright and another that appeared dim. She knew both sisters had the same model flashlight with new batteries in them.
She knew she was closer to the light that appeared brighter.

Sam's iron got hotter when he slid it over his ironing board compared to when he slid it over his floor.
This means the iron went a greater distance over the ironing board.

Dean takes his truck down green street and the truck does not get hot.
The truck then drives down blue street and the truck gets very hot. Green street has less resistance.

If a horse and donkey are both running at the same speed. but the donkey gives up before the horse. which animal will have went a greater distance
horse.

Kevin rolled a nickel across an area rug and a table, determining that the area rug has more friction.
This means that the table is smoother

A man on a bicycle is trying to quickly get to the next city, and leaves at the same time, from roughly the same spot, as a bullet train headed to that same place. When he finally arrives to the next town, he finds the train has already been there and left for its next destination.
This is because The train is much faster than the bicycle.

Throwing a frisbee through the air generates less heat then throwing it through the water.
It then follows that the air is more smooth

A pool ball with move a greater distance across a wooden plank than on a pool table.
This is because the wooden plank is rougher.

Harry is pressure washing his house and his garage. He notices it takes longer to do the brick of his house than the metal siding of his garage. He concludes that the friction of the pressure of the water hitting a rough surface like brick makes it harder to remove.
The friction of the water hitting the brick is higher friction.

Compared to a per so n the Earth has much more mass and that means that
it has stronger gravity.

Mary was bending objects to see which would break easier. She bent a plastic sheet and it didn't break, but she bent a glass sheet and it broke right away.
Which sheet was more flexible? plastic sheet.

Pulling a rope through a wooden hook causes the rope to slide a lot more slowly compared to when the rope is pulled through a metal hook.
Which hook has more friction? wooden hook.

Jim learned that a sand pit is much less smooth than a tile floor.
Rolling a volleyball across tile flo will let the volleyball move faster

Melissa pushes a toy truck across the grass in her yard and the truck moves forward about a foot. Then she pushes the toy truck across the carpet in her house and the truck moves forward about two inches.
There is more friction on the carpet.

Mike's truck is slower then his car.
If he drives both for an hour on the freeway, which will have gone the smaller distance? truck.

Gina and Debbie are sliding down a snowy hill. Gina has a heavy sled, and Debbie has a light cafeteria tray.
Which one is faster to speed up? light cafeteria tray.

Tom throws a rubber ball and an ice ball of equal diameter.
Which ball is least likely to break? Rubber ball.

The small child was much weaker than the adult
and they couldn't throw as far.

The train was very far away but the car was very close
so the train looked smaller than the car.

Max has been running on a treadmill for an hour.
Apollo just started. Who is sweating more? Max.

A student slides an eraser over the chalkboard to clean it, then slides the eraser across the brick wall next to the chalkboard.
The eraser moves slides faster across the chalkboard than it does the brick wall because the smoother surface is the chalkboard.

Joe is a really terrible pool player. He often strikes the ball to hard and causes it to leap off the table. He notices that the ball rolls further when it stays on the table than it does when it lands on the carpet.
Does the carpet have more friction than the table?

Tiffany is working on losing weight. At her heaviest, she has a hard time getting up to speed for a run.
After she loses the weight, she speeds up faster.

A man is sitting in the stands watching bullfighters at work. He moves a little closer, just as one of the bulls breaks free of its enclosure. In a panic, the man flees for his life.
He's more likely to work up a sweat while running because he's exerting himself while running.

Josh ran across the living room in his house and slid across the smooth floor. His mom told him to go play outside so he slid across the grass.
Josh slid further when he slid across the wood flo.

A hot dog rolled along a dirty counter rolls slower then one rolled along a clean counter.
Which surface would make the hot dog get hotter when rolled along it? dirty counter.

Bill was alone in an old abandoned house. He heard a strange moaning sound. It seemed to be getting louder.
Whoever or whatever was making that sound was getting closer.

A bus usually goes fifty miles an hour on its route. However, today, the bus can only go thirty miles an hour.
Today, the bus is slower than normal.

Harrison wasn't paying attention while washing dishes, and dropped two plates on the floor. The one with a floral pattern on it immediately shattered, but the plain one looked as good as new.
What plate was more likely made of a thinner material? floral plate.

Painted concrete is less sticky then plain concrete.
This means that a hand ball rolled along which surface will create less heat? painted concrete.

Joe and Sally start riding their bikes at the same speed along the same path. Joe rides his bike for twice as long as Sally.
Who will end up covering a greater distance? Joe.

The tennis ball rolled quickly along the tennis court until it reached the leafy ground and stopped because
it had more resistance.

Tim and Mary's parents are in a shouting match. Tim is down the block getting ice cream, while his sister Mary is sitting in her bedroom.
Who will the yelling be loudest for? Mary.

Jenny has found that she can snowboard off the mountain faster on powder snow than on corn snow.
This is because powder snow has less friction.

A piece of toast heats up less when slid across a counter then when slid across a cutting board.
Which is the rougher surface? cutting board.

Jameson is walking along the road that borders the beach. Above him is a streetlight, while in the distance, the blinking light of a buoy can be seen.
The streetlight is the more vibrant of the two because He is directly under it.

Janet is mowing her lawn and is pushing the lawnmower easily over her grassy yard. The lawnmower slows down when she pushes it across her rocky yard.
The rocky yard has higher resistance.

A boomerang thrown into a windy sky heats up quite a bit, but one thrown into a calm sky stays about the same temperature.
Which surface puts the least amount of friction on the boomerang? calm sky.

The footballer ran much faster on the AstroTurf. than the grass
because AstroTurf is smoother.

Milo's new compact car moves slower through a tunnel then on a highway.
This means that his compact car heats up less travelling on the highway.

Shane is rolling a soccer ball around. He rolls it in the grass field and in the parking lot. The soccer ball moves better in the parking lot.
This is because there is more resistance in the grass field.

A per so n that is jogging will sweat more than
so meone walking

Freight trains are heavier than bullet trains
so they are slower to accelerate.

When the camera flash was farther away it was dimmer than when
it was close to the model

Josh is playing at the park with his dog. He rolls the ball over the cement path and it travels really easily. When he tries to roll it over the grass, it is much harder.
This is because there is more friction on the grass.

Compared to a per so n that is working out a per
so n that is sitting on a couch will sweat less.

Cal is at the theatre.
When he walks out of the movie room to go to the restroom, the noise from the movie is quieter.

A vase rolling around in a museum has a smooth journey, while one rolling around in a house has a rough journey.
This means the vase can go a greater distance in the museum.

Connor and Maura are both going to the store. Connor walks and Maura takes her car.
Who will get their first? Maura.

Mike's wheel encountered low resistance on the green road, but high resistance on the red road during his commute to work.
After he got out of the car he noticed that his wheel seemed hotter after travelling over the red road.

Toddler Carry blew bubbles in the air versus the water.
because the air is more smooth.

Greg and Lisa both live 2 miles from the library. Greg takes off on foot.
Lisa uses a scooter. Who gets there first? Lisa.

From where Keith was standing, Paul's mining helmet gave off a brilliant light, but Pedro's helmet barely offered a flicker.
Which of the miners was closer to Keith? Paul was closer.

A car drives down a dirt road and can go quickly, but can only go slowly on a gravel road.
The car moves faster on the dirt road because it has less resistance.

When
so mething is fainter?.

Clark was learning to play golf.
He noticed that the ball went further on the grass because the grass was smoother.

Karen had a spill in her kitchen. She tried to use a paper towel to clean it up, but it tore apart. She tried toilet paper and it absorbed the spill with no damage.
What is most likely to be thicker? toilet paper.

Lisa and Melissa were each doing different exercise routines. After 1/2 hour, Lisa was dripping sweat and Melissa was still dry.
Who did the harder workout? Lisa.

Our earth is one of the largest objects in space, but nothing compared to the sun.
Which object has stronger gravity? Sun.

A jeep is driving down two streets. It goes down the snowy street quickly. Then it goes down a muddy street and can only go at half the speed of before.
The jeep goes more slowly on the muddy street because there is more resistance.

Cowboy Bill had a new horse and it was skittish. He was out in the pasture on his horse. Something spooked the horse and the horse threw Bill off his back and ran off into the distance.
As the horse put more and more distance between them, it appeared to Bill that the horse was getting smaller.

James knows that neptune has a greater mass then pluto.
This means that he also knows that neptune.

A marble was rolling across a tile counter. When it fell onto the carpeted floor it slowed down and stopped.
This is because the carpet has more friction.

Mya called her dog for dinner. The dog ran in the kitchen sliding across the smooth tile floor. Later she called the dog to bed. The carpet in the bedroom had more resistance and he didn't slide this time.
There was more heat generated from the pad of the dogs feet when he was running on the carpet.

Bill kicks a vase and blanket.
If the vase shatters and the blanket is fine the vase is rigid.

A planet that is enormous. when compared to a tiny dwarf planet
will have stronger pull.

New train tracks are more smooth then vintage train tracks.
This means that a train travelling over new tracks will go a greater distance

Hank's salt shaker rolled more slowly over his napkin than over the table.
He then surmised that the napkin was rougher

Terry was bringing his car to the mechanic to check the tire light sensor that had been going on and off for a couple of days. The light was currently off and he wanted it to go on by the time he got to the mechanic so they could see what he was talking about. Terry had the choice of driving on a gravel road or an asphalt road to get to the mechanic. Both roads took the same amount of time.
Which road would create more heat against Terry's tires, better guaranteeing the tire light sensor would go on? gravel.

Jimbo's note paper is much thinner then his cardboard.
Which item is not as strong as the other? note paper.

John is camping with his family. He attaches the camper to his truck and heads out. At a stop light, another truck beside John revs the engine, challenging him.
The truck with the most difficulty accelerating will be The truck with the camper attached.

When the race car engine started up in the driveway it was very loud but as it pulled away and got farther away
it became quieter.

Wyatt is riding his horse very fast, while Timmy is riding on his skateboard.
After ten minutes, who would have gone furthest? Wyatt.

Joe has two sets of weights.
The larger one is heavier because it has a stronger.

Tony realizes there is less resistance when he drives his truck on the road, than when he drives it across his front yard.
This is because the road is smoother.

The Rock weight trains daily, lifting heavy weights to build strength, while a turker's entire weight training is comprised of lifting beverage glasses.
They bump into each other at a comic convention, and decide to see who can throw a Jar Jar Binks action figure further. Who wins? The Rock.

It was dinnertime and Sue and her brother Tim headed toward home at exactly the same time, walking at the same speed. Sue got home quicker.
Which of them was closer to home when the headed out? Sue.

Jake is driving his motorbike to a dirt track. The ride from his house on the road is easy, as the road offers little resistance. However, the dirt track offers a lot more resistance.
Jake's motorbike will generate more heat on the dirt track.

Kathryn found that her cleaver stayed cooler after cutting bread rather than meat.
This means that the bread was more smooth

A baseball player is stronger than a child
so they can throw a ball further distance.

Walking down a trail bill sees a tall tree next to him and a tiny tree far down the path.
When Bill reaches the tiny tree will it appear larger.

Carla rolls a jar across a red floor. The red floor is bumpy. She then rolls the jar across a green floor, which is smooth.
The jar rolls further on the green floor since it has less resistance.

Some young kids were bored in a pool by a waterslide, and spotted a toilet paper roll.
They noticed that the water on the waterslide would carry the roll floating lightly above and move it smoothly, whereas the.

John and Jim are going to work. John picks up Jim on the way.
Who traveled a shorter distance? Jim.

The object likely with a stronger orb
it would be a fat man.

Ceily rides her Big Wheel on pavement instead of so il
because it's more smooth.

A halter sliding across a barn floor gets hotter then one sliding across a field.
Which surface forces the halter to travel at a lower rate of speed? barn flo.

Mike's soda can will roll at a greater rate of speed on the driveway then in the hallway.
This means the hallway has more friction

Sarah rolls a red ball around the house. It rolls slowly down the carpeted hallway, then rolls smoothly across the bathroom's tiled floor.
The ball will move faster on the tiled floor.

Milo was digging some holes when he realized that his spade experienced less resistance in sand compared to hardpack.
He could plunge his spade deeper into the sand.

Mindy dropped her spool on the floor. She realized it rolled slower over the carpet than it did the kitchen tile.
She decided that their was less resistance on the tile.

A group of kids are sitting around a table playing cards, while another group of kids are playing a vigorous game of basketball.
Who'll sweat more? the kids playing basketball.

Jenny and Suzy are both using treadmills at the gym. They are both doing so for 30 minutes. Jenny is running, while Suzy is walking.
Who is likely to sweat less? Suzy.

Ian and Avery are taking trains from the same station. Ian's train is red, and is going ten miles an hour to a destination forty miles away. Avery's train is green and is going thirty miles an hour to a destination forty miles away.
The train that is slower is red.

Mike and Sue decide to ride their bikes around the park. They follow the same path but Mike rides his bike twice as fast as Sue.
After ten minutes, who will have covered less distance? Sue.

A walker was much slower than the runner so
it took them more time.

A turtle and a hare decide to race around a track.
Which one will make it back to the starting line first? the hare.

A dog encounters less resistance running in a dog park then in a living room.
This means the dog heats up more in the living room.

Stabbing a fork into a steak causes it to move slower then stabbing it into a muffin.
Which surface provides less resistance? muffin.

Bob bought a wireless mouse and noticed that the pointer was slower to move than the wired mouse he had replaced it with.
Which mouse traveled fewer pixels in the same about of time? the wireless mouse.

John loves watching football. He watches his favorite player run 80 yards for a touchdown.
Who is sweating less John or his favorite football player? John.

Supposed you were standing on the planet Earth and Mercury.
When you look up in the sky and see the sun which planet would the sun appear larger? Mercury.

A bicycle moved at a higher rate of speed across a blue floor than it did across a red floor
because the smoother surface was the blue flo.

Superman is the strongest person on earth. Him and Batman decide to see who can throw a car the longest distance.
Who wins this face off? Superman.

Tony is pushing toy cars across the floor.
The smaller one speeds up faster than the larger one.

Who would it be easier to hear if they were both talking at the same volume a per
so n in the same room.

Micah is looking at the stars in the sky. Tonight the stars are very bright, but three months ago, they were very dim.
The stars now must be closer.

Ted was cleaning around his house. He slid a towel across the glass table and then later slide it across the wooden counter. The towel went farther when it slid across the glass table.
That is because the glass table is smoother.

A truck moving over pavement creates less heat energy then when moving over mud.
This means that the mud is rougher

Bill drops a boulder on a tire and a mirror. The tire doesnt break but the mirror does.
the mirror is less flexible.

John is rolling his basketball on the dry sidewalk and it rolls easily. Then the basketball rolls on a patch of snowy sidewalk and it doesn't roll very far.
The ball rolls better on the dry sidewalk because it has less resistance.

Rodney has just been grounded and he is furious! To take out his anger, he grabs his notebook and tries to tear it, but isn't able to. Then he grabs a sheet of paper and tears it in half.
It's much easier to rip the single sheet of paper because it's much thinner than the notebook.

A train travels at a greater rate of speed while on tracks than while rolling over gravel.
This means that the gravel creates more friction

Joanne is looking at the night sky and notices the moon looks a lot bigger than Mars.
This is because the moon is closer to Earth.

When the stop sign was far away it looked very small but as Jack got closer
it seemed bigger.

Jane's pop can experiences low friction when she tosses it into the road and high friction when she tosses it into the ditch.
The surface of the ditch is rougher

William notices that when he pets his bearded dragon, it's skin is much rougher than he notices when he pets his bunny rabbit.
The surface of the pet that has less friction is the bunny rabbit.

A zebra gets hotter running through a thicket compared to running through tundra
The tundra has less resistance

A car was driving down the road in the rain, and the driver drove at his normal speed. He took a curve and discovered his car didn't turn like normal but slid off of the road.
This is because the wet road had less friction.

Even though the moon is smaller than the stars. it appears larger in the sky
because the moon is closer to the earth.

Matt can't stand the noise at the shop. He takes a walk down the street.
As he walks away from the noisy shop, he realizes the sounds are getting quieter.

Bernie is pitching marbles. He notices that when he pitches the marbles on the tile in his kitchen, the marble goes faster and farther away than when he does the same action on grass.
Which surface is applying less friction to the marble? tile?.

The boat glided through the river water quickly, but trudged slowly through the icy ocean water.
This is because the icy ocean water has more resistance.

Hannah learned that her wooden floor was slicker than her cracked pavement driveway after taking a tumble on her scooter yesterday.
Can she travel further on wooden floor.

Ben is playing with a remote control car. It goes up a ramp very easily. When it lands on the grass, he has trouble getting the car to maintain speed.
This is because the surface of the grass is rougher.

Milo learned that throwing his dog treat across the kitchen floor creates low resistance and throwing it across the dining room floor creates high resistance.
This means that he can throw his dog treat across the kitchen flo at a faster rate

Joe likes to ice fish. He drives his pickup truck to the lack every weekend. This Saturday, it rained hard in the morning, and rainwater left on the road rapidly froze. Eager to get to the lake for fishing, Joe drove faster than the speed limit. On the asphalt, he skidded several times due to taking turns too fast, but quickly regained control. But when he hit a patch of ice, his truck began to skid and he couldn't correct, because the ice has much less resistance.
Do you think that he was skid faster on the ice?.

Alice was walking through a dark room, when she saw a dim light far away.
As she walked through the house, following the light, it began to be brighter.

Tom dropped his lead pipe on the sidewalk and had to chased after it a long way before it stopped. Tom entered his yard and dropped his lead pipe again this time in the grass but noticed it didn't go very far at all.
Tom realized that the lead pipe received far greater resistance when dropped on Grass.

It was easy to see the bird that was nearby. but once it was far away flying
it appeared much smaller.

Jen is at the gym exercising. Jake is at home sleeping.
Because of this Jen is sweating more.

Kathy is looking at new tires for her car. The brand A tire has a very thick tread on it, while the brand B tire has a thinner tread on it.
Which tire would Kathy buy if she wants the stronger tire? Brand A tire.

