Does the Sun appear dimmer on Earth or Pluto
Pluto.

Tank the kitten learned from trial and error that carpet is rougher then skin.
When he scratches his claws over carpet it generates more heat then when he scratches his claws over skin

An airplane takes longer to reach takeoff speed on a dirt runway than on a paved runway.
This is because the dirt runway has more resistance.

Linda stops at a red light on her motorcycle. When the light turns green, she gets the bike up to the speed limit very quickly. She rides to her friend Maria's house and picks her up for their trip to the beach. They have to stop at the next red light.
When pulling away, Linda notices that it takes longer to get up to full speed.

Tim realized that when he drove his truck on a windy road he experienced high resistance and low resistance when he drove it on a calm road.
This made him realize that the windy road was rougher

Milo takes his jeep out. When he drives it over grass, his jeep stays cool. When he rides it over sand, the jeep heats up.
The sand has more resistance.

Two identical asteroids approach Earth and Jupiter.
The asteroid will be more strongly pulled towards Jupiter because Jupiter has greater mass.

A brush can travel quicker through short hair then through long hair.
This means the brush can move a greater distance through the short hair.

Samuel dropped a small light pebble and a large heavy rock off a cliff at the same time.
Which one hit the ground at the bottom of the cliff first? the large rock.

Nell has very thick hair; Lynn's hair is much thinner.
Whose hair is stronger? Nell.

Timmy was rolling his ball along the pavement outside his home and noticed it was going quite a long ways. Timmy thought he could roll the ball all the way to the end of his driveway, he rolled the ball starting where the gravel began and noticed the ball bounced more than it did on the pavement and it didn't go nearly as far.
Timmy concluded that the ball would roll faster on Pavement.

A microscope experiences less resistance when sliding across a lab table then when sliding across a lab floor.
Which surface will force the microscope to register less of an increase in temperature? lab table.

A vineyard floor is more rough then a kitchen floor.
Which floor makes the grape get hotter when rolled across it? vineyard flo.

Tim found out that a parking lot is smooth and a street is rough by riding his bike over them.
The bike moved slower over the street.

A garbage truck is picking up trash next to Jim's house. Two blocks away, a fire truck races to an emergency.
What is likely to be louder to Jim? garbage truck?.

The bus was coming, but Sue couldn't read the route info when it was stopped at Market Street. However, when it reached Delano Street, the letters were large enough that she could see that it said Downtown Express.
Which street is nearer to Sue's location? Delano Street is nearer.

Bob ran his hand over his girlfriends legs. One leg was shaved and the other was stubbly. He noted that the shaved leg was much smoother.
Which leg caused more friction? The stubbly leg.

Mary is a lot stronger then Jimbo.
If each of them were to throw a football, which would throw it a lesser distance? Jimbo.

The ball bearings rolled all over the concrete floor, but stopped when they rolled on to the carpet.
The floor surface with the least friction is the concrete.

Jess was in class and needed to borrow a pen. Her friend slid one across the tile floor. Jess caught it and went about her day. Their last class was in a carpeted room. Jess tried to slide the pen across the rough carpet, but had trouble getting it there.
The pen slid easier across the tile floor because it had less resistance.

Susan is walking along a path in a forest, blowing on her whistle once every 2 minutes. Her friend Jane is at their campsite. She can hear Susan's whistle. The sound is getting fainter and fainter.
Is Susan walking towards or away from the campsite? away from.

Joe was playing with a ball, and noticed that when he rolled it on a wood floor, it went farther than when he did the same on a rug.
He assumed that there was more resistance to the ball on the rug.

Mary learned by rolling her volleyball over various surfaces that sand is rougher then pavement.
This allowed her to learn that rolling her volleyball across sand creates more heat

Cards in a new deck were so slick it was hard to shuffle without them falling all over while older cards with the coating warn off were easier.
This is because the new deck had less friction.

Tony is taking a trip to Florida. He goes by plane and returns by bus.
What trip took less time? the trip to Florida.

A dog is forced to run slower over a highway than through a yard.
This means that the yard is smoother

The skateboard champ did smoother tricks on the park bench than on the stairwell because
it had less resistance.

Lilly and her father Andrew are playing catch in the back. Lilly is not as strong as her father.
Who has trouble tossing the ball far? Lilly.

Children watched the gorilla in the enclosure at the zoo.
They noted that the gorilla walked more briskly on concrete.

Roger just moved. He gets out of the moving van and grabs a box. Roger takes the box and slides it across the grass. The box moves pretty slowly. Later in the house, Roger takes the same box and slides it across the wooden floor. This time is moves more quickly.
The box moved farther on the wooden floor.

In the middle of the night, Jane is looking for her cat in the back yard with a flashlight. There's a helicopter in the sky, which she can see because of its blinking lights, but is not near enough to be heard.
The least luminous of the two will appear to be the nearby flashlight.

Mary Jane noticed that her belt seemed to get a lot less warm when sliding it across her sweatpants as she put it on than when she slid it across her jeans in the morning.
She then came to the conclusion that her jeans were rough

Hannah likes to roll her lime on unpaved and paved roads. The unpaved road is rougher than the paved road.
When rolled on the paved road, the lime will go faster than on the unpaved road.

Joe and Mike are walking down the same street at the same pace.
If Mike walks for one more hour than Joe, who travelled further? Mike.

Elon and Donald needed to get to Nevada quickly. They would both need a vehicle while they were there so they decided to take separate cars. Elon's car was very fast on the drive to Nevada while Donald's car was slow.
Who arrived first in Nevada Elon.

Timmy's marble will roll a greater distance over a floor than over a chair.
This means that the flo has less friction

Caitlyn sat in the dentist's chair and looked up. She could see the light the dentist used to see in her mouth. It was raised a couple of feet above her and looked fairly dim. The dentist began her examination and lowered the light to Caitlyn's mouth and Caitlyn observed that the light got almost blindingly bright.
This means that the brightness of the light increased when lowered.

Biff was trying to prove to the bar that he was very strong.
Which would be a better thing to rip in half to show off? Phone Book.

The car was much lighter than the semi truck so
it was able to accelerate faster.

The pageant girl did her routine much faster on the stage than on the wood panels because
it was more smooth.

Jerry is going to try to burn some calories this week. He spends time on the treadmill after work every day.
In the last week, Jerry has produced more perspiration than normal.

Jupiter has a very large mass compared to an asteroid and therefore
it has stronger gravity.

Jupiter is much further away from Earth than the sun is.
As a result Jupiter appears smaller than the sun in the sky.

Which pencil would be more likely to not break if it was bent
Plastic Pencil.

The calf bone is much thicker than a toe bone
and it is stronger.

Mike was making some chicken wings in the oven and set the stove alarm to go off when they were done. Brrrrrrrrrrriiiiiiiiinnnnnnnngggggggg! The stove alarm squealed so loudly that Mike heard it all the way on the other side of the house. He ran into the kitchen, where the ringing was so loud it hurt his ears, and quickly turned it off.
When was the stove alarm loudest? stove alarm up close.

When Nick shots his marble on blacktop it goes further than when he shoots on the dirt.
because the dirt has more resistance.

Franklin found that if he slides a turtle on its back across a pool table, it slides farther than if he were to slide the turtle across a pile of leaves. He realizes this because there is less resistance on the pool table.
The difference in the length that the turtle slides across both surfaces can be attributed to which surface being rougher? pile of leaves.

John's truck tire has much less friction when rolling over asphalt rather than an overgrown field.
This means his truck tire can get up to a higher rate of speed over asphalt.

A jeep is driving down a sandy road and it gets very hot. The jeep then drives on a clear road and stays cool.
The clear road has less resistance.

John and Alicia are both throwing footballs during practice. Alicia is a very tiny and petite young girl. John is a hulk of a man.
Who can throw footballs further? John.

Sarah drops her peach on the sidewalk. It rolls quite a ways, then rolls onto her rocky lawn, where it stops very suddenly.
The peach stopped rolling on the rocky lawn because it had more resistance.

The car engine was very loud when it was close but as it got further away
it became quieter.

Noah throws a baseball towards the hitter.
Does the ball look larger coming out of the pitchers glove or over the plate? Home plate.

A bowling ball will get warmer when it rolls down a sidewalk than down a wooden alley.
The bowling ball would travel farther over the wooden alley.

John stands on 10 inch thick ice and one inch thick ice.
On which type of ice is John least likely to break? 10 inch thick ice.

Mike was sliding around in his socks when he realized that a vinyl floor is smoother then a wood floor.
He then realized that the wood flo had more friction

Brice notices that his toy car rolls more easily across his father's bald head than it does across his mother's hairy head.
He decides from this that the surface with more friction is hairy head.

Paul has taken a job in a warehouse. Paul stacks boxes onto a pallet. Later, Paul sits down in the break room.
In which situation will Paul's shirt be more wet from perspiration? When he's stacking boxes.

Mike's new boxcar moves faster over new tracks compared to old tracks.
This made him realize that the old tracks offer more resistance

Amy is pulling her suitcase behind her as she walks to the airport. She pulls it across a dirt path and then down a sidewalk. Amy thought that it was easier for her to pull the suitcase on the sidewalk.
That is because the dirt path had more resistance.

If a chicken and a rooster are both running across the barnyard at the same speed. but the chicken gets tired and gives up before the rooster. which will have went the greater distance
rooster.

Audrey is watching fireflies in a field at night. When they land on her arm, they light up and glow a brilliant yellow.
However, when they begin to leave the field, they are dull.

Brad was climbing a tree and hanging from different branches. He noticed that he could easily get his hand around one tree branch but couldn't get his hand around another tree branch.
This means that the branch that is less likely to break is the branch he couldn't get his hand around.

After one hour. a blue boat had gone twice the distance as a red boat
the blue boat is speedier.

Stanley and Kayle are driving their cars at 40 mph down the road. Stanley stops his car to answer his phone while Kayle continues driving.
Who drives the shortest distance? Stanley.

Mitch is rolling wagons down a hill at the same time. The red wagon goes to the bottom of the hill, but the black wagon stops halfway down the hill.
Which wagon was slower? black wagon.

Jim weighed two objects to determine their mass. He found that a baseball has less mass then a softball.
This means that the baseball has weaker gravity.

Tommy loved his new hoverboard.
He was surprised to find that it moved faster on sidewalk ; because the sidewalk was smoother.

Rolling a soccer ball over a cut grass field makes the ball heat up less then rolling it over a tall grass field.
This means the ball encounters more resistance when rolling over the tall grass.

Bill drops a computer chip and a leather belt from the top of a building.
If the chip breaks and the belt does not then the belt is more bendable.

A dining table isn't as rough as a kitchen table.
This means that when tupperware is slid across the dining table it experiences less resistance

Wade is running toward the tree.
As he gets closer, the tree starts to appear bigger.

When Milo rubs his spatula over his aluminum pan it heats up less then when he rubs it over his iron pan.
Which pan does the spatula move faster over? aluminum pan.

Jim was standing at the bus stop and he heard the faint sound of thunder. Five minutes later he heard it again. It sounded louder. Then after another 3 minutes he heard more thunder and it sounded even louder.
Is the thunderstorm headed in Jim's direction? yes.

Neptune has much more mass than Mars therefore
it has stronger gravity.

Milo was sliding his feet across different surfaces. He learned that tile is slick and carpet is rugged.
This means his feet move at a lower rate of speed sliding them across the carpet.

Kicking a kickball over a concrete yard lets it move at a greater rate of speed compared to kicking it over a rocky yard.
This means the rocky hard has more resistance

Linda and Thomas decide to walk to the park. Linda looks around and walks at a more leisurely pace while Thomas walks briskly.
Who takes longer to reach the park? Linda.

Cammy's pushpin encountered more friction when she inserted it into the floor than when she stuck it into the wall.
She also noticed the pushpin heated up less in the wall.

Jenny worked at a horse stable and she got to ride the horses on her time off. When she rode Blossom from the barn to the house, it always took longer than when she rode Bozo from the barn to the house.
Which of the horses is speedier? Bozo.

Bobby's grandparents have given him a box full of toys. They tell him to come pick the toys up in his wagon and pull the wagon home. The empty wagon is very light to Bobby, but once he puts the toys in it, he notices that it feels very weighed down. In which situation will Bobby have more trouble getting the wagon to reach a quick speed from a stopped position?
when the wagon is filled up with toys.

Tim and Tom drive identical cars in a drag race. They drive at the same speed but Tim drives for twice the time that Tom does.
Who will have gone the most distance? Tim.

Andy has two sets of weights.
The larger weights weigh more because they have stronger gravity.

Bill's dad Tom, a semi-professional baseball player can throw a ball much further than Bill can.
Tom is probably stronger than Bill.

Mike is driving his car down the street and turns down a dirt road. When he's on the dirt road, he notices that the car goes slower than it did on the street.
The car goes slower on the dirt road because it has more friction than the street.

A hair brush experiences low resistance when slid across a porcelain tile compared to when it is slid across a throw rug.
Which surface will allow the hair brush to slide a greater distance? porcelain tile.

A potato that rolls across a field gets hotter then one that rolls across a factory floor.
This means the factory flo has less resistance

A cat can run faster then a kitten.
If both run around for 50 minutes, which will have gone a greater distance in that time? cat.

A musk melon gets a lot hotter rolling around in a garbage can then rolling around on a table.
Which surface is more smooth? table.

When pruning a tree it is much easier to cut off branches than the trunk because the trunk is stronger since
it is thicker.

Kyle is playing on the beach. He rolls a ball on the sand and then on the boardwalk. He notices it takes a longer time for the beach ball to travel on the sand.
That is because the smoother surface is the boardwalk.

The weak per so n and strong per so n were having a baseball throwing contest but the weak per
so n couldn't throw as far.

Justin rolls his ball down the carpeted hallway and the ball rolls slowly. Justin then rolls his ball across his marble table and the ball rolls quickly.
Justin decides that the marble table has less friction than the carpeted hallway.

The elderly per so n and the weight lifter were playing baseball but the weight lifter was much stronger
so he could throw the ball further.

And old pilot, famous for his record-breaking flights in the 40's, wants to prove he can still do it. He plans an around the world trip and challenges a modern aircraft against his old one.
Which plane is likely to reach the final destination before the other? The modern aircraft.

A man is caring for a young monkey in the wild. He hands the monkey an apple, and it throws the apple, but it only goes a couple yards. The man then collects the apple and joins in the fun by throwing it, too.
It goes much farther because the man is much stronger than the monkey.

Morgan is taking a drive into the city, and his friend Kyle is doing the same. They are leaving the same house at the same time in separate cars. Morgan and Kyle are both driving fifty miles an hour. Morgan is heading deep into the city, but Kyle is only going to the outskirts.
The person driving longer is Morgan.

The nearer the man with the flashlight got
the children found that the light appeared brighter.

Mary is working out only on weekends.
On weekdays, Mary naps. Mary perspires more on weekends.

Which planet would the sun appear brighter
Mercury.

A falcon and a bear both cross a giant field at full speed.
Which animal crosses the field first? Falcon.

A rocket heats up more in the lower atmosphere then in the upper atmosphere.
This means the rocket moves more slowly in the lower atmosphere.

Mary realized that her pencil rolled much better on the smooth surface of her desk
because the bed created more friction.

Mike knows that his porsche is quicker then his mazda.
If he drove both cars for the same amount of time, which would have gone the greater distance? porsche.

Milo knows that his long haired dog has a rugged neck and that his short haired dog has a smooth neck.
This means that when he puts the dog collar onto the long haired dog it will experience the least amount of friction

Toby slides his barefoot against the wood near the foyer, and it glides over it. The then swipes his foot against the carpet, and gets a rug burn from the heat, because there's more resistance from the carpet.
Which generates more heat the carpeted flo.

Milo knows that notebook paper is smoother than calligraphy paper.
This means that his pencil can move faster across the notebook paper.

Bob went to the beach with his friends. They took a beach ball out the car in the parking lot. Bob rolled the beach ball to his friend in the parking lot. Later he tried rolling the ball across the rough sand to another friend, but it was harder to do than before.
The beach ball moved faster on the parking lot.

Darla the cat burglar stayed still until she saw the male police officer's flashlight growing dim and then she breathed a big sigh of relief. But suddenly a female police officer's bright flashlight lit up the night and she knew the jig was up.
Which police officer was closer to Darla? The female police officer.

Mike knows that his tank is really slow and that his car is pretty fast.
Which vehicle would take longer to get him to work if he were to commute in it? tank.

An orange rolls all the way across a counter. It falls off onto the kitchen rug.
The orange rolls a little further then stops. Is the the counter flatter?

A pet parent was playing with their cat with a cat toy. They wanted to see how fast the cat could catch the toy moving at, so they tried throwing it on different surfaces.
On the ceramic surface, the toy moved easily -- on the.

There was a man standing near a tree and there was a house in the distance
but the tree appeared larger.

Baby Tilly drove her baby car through the shag carpet and got stuck! She reversed and went on the rug instead, picking up speed.
The rug was more smooth.

A race car drives faster on the track than on the infield grass.
This is because the infield grass has higher resistance than the track.

A carrot rolling around on a dinner plate has an easy time, but one rolling around on a breakfast plate has a hard time moving.
Which surface forces the carrot to roll around at a lower rate of speed? breakfast plate.

Milo figured out that wood is smoother than cement.
This means that when he rolls a nail across the wood. it will travel a longer distance

The light fixture on the outside of the house was very dim when it was close but as they got closer
it got brighter.

Peter Clark took his Ferrari to the ski slope and drove extremely fast.
He was much slower going down the grassy hill because it has higher resistance.

Kevin was standing at the train station waiting for the train to arrive. He notices a bridge a long way off in the distance and he watches as the train crosses over it.
Now the train is pulling into the station and Kevin notices the train was much quieter on the bridge.

Sean drives his jeep across a sandy beach and the jeep gets very hot. He then takes the jeep over a paved road and the jeep stays cool.
The sandy beach has more friction.

A per so n's leg is usually thicker than their arms
so they are typically stronger.

A huge bodybuilder and a skinny swimmer see who can throw a 45 pound plate further. Who wins this contest
Bodybuilder.

A knife has a smaller mass then a sword.
This means that the knife has weaker gravity.

A spear thrown in to dirt gets hotter then one thrown into water.
This means the water is more smooth

Jen rolls her ball down two roads. One is blue, one is green. The ball rolls fast and easy down the blue road, but is slow on the green road.
The blue road has less resistance.

The cheetah soared across the sand at lightening speed, but got caught in the quicksand and sank.
The quicksand had more resistance.

Jeans are smoother than plastic.
Mike's needle heated up less when he pushed it into jeans.

Hannah learned that rolling her billiard ball over a felt table generated less heat then rolling it over her blanket
The felt table is smoother

The show pony trotted much faster on the horse track then on the wet grass because
it had more resistance.

Jose swung a sledgehammer and it quickly hit the wall. Pedro was operating a hoist with a wrecking ball, and it took almost half a minute for it to swing and hit the wall.
Which is heavier the wrecking ball is heavier.

A military tank can drive a greater distance before running out of gas on a grassy hill compared to on a wet hill.
This is due to which one of these being rougher: wet hill.

A bmx bike can ride further on a quarter pipe then on a half pipe.
This means the bmx bike will get hotter on the half pipe.

One is attending a musical performance. if the so und is not as loud the spectator is likely seated where
In the balcony.

Doug looked around the room for his cell phone and could see it in the far corner of the room from the faint glow of its screen. He went over to the phone and held it in his hand, noticing that the screen now looked very luminous up as he held it.
This means that the light from the phone looks stronger up close.

Maggie pushed her exercise ball across the linoleum floor in her gym's lobby, then she pushed the exercise ball across her rubber yoga mat. She saw that the ball moved faster across the linoleum floor than it did across the rubber yoga mat.
She thus observed that the rougher surface was the rubber yoga mat.

Bill is watching a red train move far away and a blue train come closer.
Is the blue train going to be loud.

After a grueling work-out, Brandon sat drinking a beverage when, in the gym's mirror, he noticed a sweat bead traveling down the side of his face. At the same moment a sweat bead was traveling down his arm. His arm was significantly hairier than his face and he noticed the sweat was sliding quickly and with ease down his face, but was barely moving on his arm.
Where on Brandon did the sweat bead experience the most friction? arm.

A car heats up faster when driving on a dirt road compared to driving on a paved road.
The dirt road has more friction.

The stars in the sky do not appear to shine as bright as the sun.
Why do the other stars not appear as bright as the sun is it because they are farther.

John and Kevin are working out at the gym. John is running on the treadmill while Kevin is being lazy and walks on the treadmill.
As a result John is sweating more.

Charlie is playing in his back yard. He can hear two helicopters approaching. One of them sounds loud and the other one sounds quiet.
Which one is more of a distance away? the quiet one.

Shawn sees a horse far away in a field, and notes that it looks like it could fit in the palm of his hand. The horse sees Shawn, and wants a treat, so it trots across the field to stand next to him.
When the horse reaches Shawn, Shawn sees that the horse is huge.

Ryan takes his bike down a dirt road and it takes him twenty minutes to go one mile. Then Ryan takes his bike down a paved street and can go one mile in seven minutes.
The paved street has less friction.

Jenny is building a bird feeder. She wants it to be strong.
She should mount it on a 3 inch wide post.

A magazine sliding across a shelf has less friction then one sliding across a counter.
This means the shelf is more smooth then the counter

Jed is riding his go kart on a track. Later he has to ride it across the grass to get back to the trailer. Jed notices that there is less heat on his tires when he rides on the track.
This is because there is more friction on the grass.

Jupiter has much more mass than any asteroid therefore
it has stronger gravity than the asteroid

Sarah rolls a kiwi across a striped rug and a polka-dotted rug. The striped rug's surface is smoother than the polka-dotted rug's surface.
The kiwi travels slower on the polka-dotted rug.

Pete and Chip have been working out with weights in order to improve their strength. Pete can do more repetitions with more weight, so he is the more powerful of the two.
If they each throw a football toward a goal line some distance away, whose throw will get closer to the goal line? Pete.

Mike set a new distance record with his skateboard when travelling over a new road, but he didn't go very far at all when travelling over a bumpy road.
Mike's skateboard generated less heat moving over the new road.

Jim noticed that his rug is much rougher than his polished wood floor.
Rolling his suitcase over polished wood will allow it to travel further

Kyle is running to work today, but yesterday he walked.
Kyle makes it to work faster today.

Jim's stone encountered low resistance rolling down a hill than when rolling down a hole.
The stone sped along quicker on the hill.

Rachel heard a fire engine in the distance. It turned down her block and drove up to a neighbor's house.
Where was it louder? at a neighbor's house.

A city bus can travel much further over a road then over an alley.
This means that the alley is rougher

An apple is sitting 5 feet away from Harry. and a watermelon is sitting 10 feet away. Which item looks larger
apple.

A bowling ball can be thrown down a gree alley or a yellow alley. When it goes down the green alley, it generates more heat than when it is thrown down the yellow alley.
Compared to the yellow alley, the bowling ball thrown down the green alley will go a distance that is shorter.

A spider had a smoother trip over a leaf and a very rugged trip over some bark.
The spider was able to scurry a greater distance before tiring on the leaf.

Jasmine is drinking soda and finishes the can, then drops the can on the grassy lawn. The can stays where it lands, and doesn't really roll away. When she brings the can in, she drops it again on the wood floor inside her house, and the can rolls around the room.
The can rolled more on the wood floor since it had less resistance.

Greg and Hank each plan a cross country journey. Greg takes a car. Hank wants to walk cross country.
Who crosses the country first? Greg.

Hannah is playing with her dog. Hannah rolls a ball for her dog to chase in two places. First, she rolls the squeaky ball in a grassy field, and the ball moves slowly. Then, she rolls the squeaky ball on her paved driveway and the ball moves quickly.
The ball moved faster on the paved driveway because the driveway had less resistance.

A condor experiences low resistance when flying through clear sky then when flying through rainy sky.
Which sky is providing a bumpier ride to the condor? rainy sky.

A soccer ball weighs less then a lead weight.
If both are thrown across a field, which will speed up quicker? soccer ball.

A dart thrown into a dart board encounters low resistance, while a dart thrown into an oak plank encounters high resistance.
This means that throwing a dart into a oak plank makes the dart get hotter

Amy wants to travel across the Atlantic ocean and is trying to decide between two options.
Which should she choose if she wants to reach her destination in the shortest window of time? A plane.

John learned that his wooden table has more friction than his felt table after sliding his coaster around one morning.
The coaster got much hotter when he slid it around on the wooden table.

Gravity has a bigger effect on the earth than on the moon
because the Earth has more mass.

Janie wants to slide over a photograph to a friend.
It will be easier to slide it across the table because the table is smoother.

A turtle isn't as fast of a runner as a rooster.
If they both run for 5 minutes, which will have gone the greater distance? rooster.

Kari drops a quarter in the parking lot after shopping. The quarter quickly rolls away, hits a patch of sand, then slows down.
The quarter slowed down on the sand patch because the sand patch had more friction than the parking lot.

An airplane weighs much less then a submarine.
If both vehicles are accelerating, which will get up to top speed faster? airplane.

A girl slides a game piece across the gameboard, then across across the carpet. He notices the game piece shows more resistance against the carpet.
Which surface allows the game piece to slide faster with the same force? the gameboard.

Sally bent an old, dry twig she found on the ground and it snapped in half. Then she broke a similar sized twig from a growing tree and she bent it, but it wouldn't break.
That's because the freshly picked twig was more flexible.

The toddler pushed the volleyball along the beach s and slowly. but was quicker on the pier wood because
it was more smooth.

Tyler is going to play a ring toss game. He is smaller than the other people who are playing.
Tyler will throw the ring not as far as others.

Milo was rolling a penny across both cardboard and a rug. His penny went a greater distance over the cardboard compared to over the rug.
This means that the rug has more friction

Gumby is flexible, while Humpty Dumpty isn't.
Which one would be more fragile? Humpy Dumpty.

Mary spent time cutting various pieces of wood with her handsaw. She noticed that her saw became warm to the touch after cutting birch wood, but not after cutting cherry wood.
She surmised that the birch wood had more resistance

Mack drops a round pebble on the grass and it doesn't roll very far. He then drops his pebble on ice and the pebble moves a long ways away.
The pebble went further on the ice because it has less friction.

Sheila and Harvey both wanted to make it to the cabin first in order to claim the best room. Sheila began the one hour drive to the cabin at 9 A. M. but Harvey didn't leave until 9:45 A. M.
Who is going to get there first? Sheila.

Jason wanted to build a strong bench that would hold a lot of weight.
Would he be better off with a plank of wood that was 4 inches thick?.

Roni was playing with a beach ball at the beach. She noticed that when she rolled the ball on the sand, it traveled slower than when she rolled it on the wooden boardwalk.
Which surface provides more resistance? sand.

If you drop glass and a rubber tire at the same time you'll find that rubber is more flexible
and therefore less breakable.

David noticed that it was harder to push his snow blower on snowy pavement than on dry pavement.
This is because the dry pavement has less friction.

Driving a car in an abandoned lot is a low friction activity, while driving a car in a busy lot is a high friction activity.
This means the busy lot is more rough

Harry is pushing his nephew in a wheelbarrow.
After the boy gets out, Harry notices that the wheelbarrow speeds up quicker.

Tom accidentally knocks a clay pot and a metal pot off of a shelf.
Which pot is less likely to break? Metal pot.

If my so n Jeff is yelling at me from the next room. and my other so n Frank is yelling at the same volume from his friend's house a block away. who am I more likely to hear
Jeff.

A globe can spin at a quicker rate of speed in a petite hand compared to a calloused hand.
Which hand is the smoother one? petite hand.

John and Rick were playing basketball. Rick played a lot harder than John did.
As a result John sweats less than Rick.

As the man drove off the base of the mountain he thought it was massive. but once he was far away
it seemed much smaller.

Jim is riding his ATV behind his parents' house in the mud. There's a lot of friction as he rides through the mud, but not really any as he drives on the road to get back to his home next door.
Jim is able to drive the ATV faster on the road.

The bar of soap fell while Jack was washing up. He noticed that it went much faster while sliding across the side of the bathtub than it did when it hid the floormat.
This is because the smoother surfaces is the bathtub.

Mike has learned over time that his dinner plate has less resistance then his lunch plate.
This means that when he rolled a pea across his dinner plate it made the pea less hot then when he rolled it across the lunch plate

Shana has been moving. She has taken several loads to her new place.
She will travel faster when hauling which? Bedding.

A piglet is in a field looking for its mother when it is spotted by a grown wolf. The wolf wants to eat the pig, so a chase begins.
The piglet is eventually caught because it is slower than the wolf.

Rob has a bowling ball and a volleyball.
The bowling ball is harder to pick up because it has more gravity pulling it.

A cannon and a rifle each shoot a cannonball and a bullet towards the target.
Which projectile would be slower? Cannonball.

Emily has a plastic massager and a glass massager. She was carrying one in each hand and tripped, sending both to the floor.
Which will shatter? the glass massager.

A prep counter is smoother then a serving table when a burrito is slid across it.
Which surface will force the burrito to travel at a lower rate of speed? serving table.

Jupiter is able to pull things into its orbit. but usually Earth is not that's because Earth has less mass
and has weaker gravity.

Sliding a credit card across a shopping counter is slower then sliding it across a polished floor.
This means the credit card will get a lot less hot being slid across the polished flo.

Jim experimented with sliding his puck across frozen ice and a tarred road. He quickly learned that the frozen ice had less friction than the tarred road.
This means that sliding his puck across tarred road will generate more heat

Mary is excited about the new area rug she got for her entryway. She lays it out and takes a step and slides forward, with the rug and falls. She buys a rubber pad to go under it and no more sliding.
This is because the rubber pad creates more friction.

Kim used to play softball in high school, but in her senior year she broke her arm in which she pitched with.
After college Kim got back into softball, but noticed that because of the lack of practice over the year she couldn't throw as far than she used to.

Jim ran to catch the bus going across town two days in a row this week. On the first day Jim wasn't carrying anything and on the next day he was carrying a backpack.
In which situation would it take longer for Jim to get up to full speed when carrying a backpack.

Mike's glass sheet is very brittle, while his phone book is pretty flexible.
Which item is more likely to break in two when he flexes it? glass sheet.

If you were to kick a large tree or kick a per so n which object could ab so rb the kick better
Tree.

A shovel generates less heat shoveling dirt then when shoveling rocks.
This means that the rocks are rougher.

A dump truck can drive easily through a weigh station, but has a hard time driving through a gravel pit.
This means the dump truck's tires are likely to get very hot driving through the gravel pit.

Alvin and Cameron are planning a trip to another state. Alvin travels by plane, while Cameron takes a car. They leave at the same time.
After two hours, who has traveled farther? Alvin.

A camera slid along a folding table moves gently, while one slid along a card table bumps along.
Which type of table will allow the camera to slide at a greater rate of speed? folding table.

Every object has gravity. Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system.
Which object has a weaker gravitational pull? Moon.

Dean is riding a tricycle over a lawn, and then onto the sidewalk by his house.
Dean can go faster on the sidewalk because it has less resistance.

A ball is kicked across a road and into a yard. The ball moves quickly across the smooth road, but slows and stops when it rolls into the bushes of the yard.
The ball stops in the bushes because they have more friction.

A new mother is trying to decide what kind of plates to buy for her baby's dinner.
She knows the baby will eventually knock them on the floor, so to avoid having to clean up broken pieces, she should buy plastic ones.

Tom drove his car in a farmer's field. When he was in the field, there was a lot of friction between the tires and the field. There was not nearly as much friction when he drove back home on the road.
The car would generate more heat between the tires and the road.

A life vest floating in calm water has low friction while one floating in choppy water has high friction.
Which type of water will allow the life vest to float the furthest? calm water.

Mona knows that her laundry basket is more smooth then her hamper.
This means that when she throws her sock into the hamper will heat up more

John and Flora each head down the beach. John is walking while Flora is running.
Who makes it less far down the beach? John.

A taxi experiences low resistance driving through water, but high resistance driving through mud.
This means the taxi will move quicker through water.

Timmy throws a rock across his yard.
After the rock had landed, would it appear to be smaller.

Sonya realized that she could slide her oven mitt across a green table without it warming up too much, but that if she slid the oven mitt over a red table it heated up much more.
This made her realize that the red table had more resistance.

Jack is rubbing his hands together for warmth but it isn't working very well. He puts a leather glove on one hand and leaves the other bare and rubs them together again and gets more heat but notices that it takes more effort to move his hand further along the surface.
Which surface has more friction? LEATHER GLOVE.

The train was much heavier than the car so
it was slower.

Tim can move his razer faster when he cuts his hair rather than a piece of pie.
This means that the razer stays cooler when he is cutting hair.

The rab it had traveled farther then the sloth had in 30 minutes
Which animal moved slower sloth.

Olivia took four strides and then slid on her sock wearing feet down the wooden gym floor. Then she went into the wrestling room and took four strides and slid on her sock wearing foot down the rubber wrestling mat. She came to a stop after a shorter distance on the rubber mat than she did on the wooden floor.
This means the friction is higher on the wrestling mat.

Stan and Stu both threw baseballs at the house. Stan's hit the glass window of the living room and it shattered. Stu's ball hit the Plexiglas window in the storm door and it bounced back at him.
That's because a glass window is more breakable.

Milo's TV experiences little resistance when sliding across a living room floor and rather high resistance when sliding across a bedroom floor.
This means the TV will get hotter when sliding across the bedroom flo.

Jim is a professional hockey player. He knows that wet ice is rougher than dry ice.
Which type of ice can he skate faster on? dry ice.

Superman is the strongest man in the universe. Lex Luther might be the smartest.
Who could throw a car further? Superman.

A red sports car is waiting at a red light. A dump truck pulls up next to it wanting to race.
Who will speed off faster once the light turns green? Sports Car.

Jim and Joe are riding bikes. Jim stops after fifteen minutes and takes a break.
Joe keeps on riding. Who went farther? Joe.

Al plays with his toy train. The train glides easily over a mirror, but is hard to push across a carpet.
Al thinks that the mirr has less resistance.

Tom and Ryan are playing catch on the yard.
Tom notices that as the ball gets closer to him, it appears to be larger.

A taco can slide a greater distance on a plate then on a bowl.
This means the taco will get hotter sliding on the bowl.

A biscuit sliding across a serving tray is forced to move slower then one sliding across a kitchen floor.
This means the kitchen flo is the most smooth

Sarah brushed her hair. Some fell off and turned into a hairball on the bathroom rug. Then Joe walked across the bathroom. The hairball moved a foot across the rug. then it moved a few inches across the pile of laundry next to the rug.
On which of these areas did the hairball encounter more friction? pile of clothes.

Jimbo knows that his skis are faster then his snowboard.
This means that when he slides down the hill, it will take a shorter amount of time when he's using his skis.

Peter tried to practice his skateboarding in an old asphalt parking lot, but found it too eroded to have much success as he couldn't roll more than a couple of feet. Though he knew it wasn't allowed, he snuck over to a concrete walkway late at night when it was unlikely to be be used, and found he could move much further.
The concrete allowed more distance because it had less friction.

A quilt is rougher than a blanket.
This means a thimble tumbling across which surface will experience less resistance? blanket.

Jason went to the beach in his car. The car generated more heat as he drove along the sand than when he drove along the gravel.
This is because the sand is rougher than the gravel.

Tim noticed that rolling his penny over sandpaper seemed to generate more resistance than rolling it over a sheet of paper.
Rolling his penny over sandpaper will generate more heat

A stuffed animal can slide along quickly on a berber carpet while it slides slowly on a plush carpet.
This means the plush carpet has less friction

A piece of cardboard is more flexible then a stone slab.
Which item will be more likely to break if bent? stone slab.

Marie needs to practice basketball before the game. When she's at school, she practices at the basketball court, and also on the soccer field. Marie notices that the ball doesn't bounce very high on the soccer field.
That is because the basketball court has less resistance.

Mike's balled up sock encounters less resistance sliding across the bathroom floor then across his hamper.
This means the hamper is rougher

Adam is hiking through the rain forest as a very vocal toucan's cries ring out.
He can tell that he's near the toucan and starts to move away, where the bird's calls become quieter.

The floss was much thinner than the rope so
it was weaker.

If Jimbo and Mary are working out together and Jimbo is hitting the weights while Mary is checking her phone. which per so n is emitting more sweat from their pores
Jimbo.

A bike is ridden on a bumpy surface and on a flat surface. The bike goes faster on the flat surface.
The bumpy surface has more friction.

A gerbil can move at about a mile an hour and a dog can run much faster so in the race across the backyard
it took the gerbil more time to finish.

Mick is working out on Tuesdays, and not at all on Mondays.
On Mondays, Mick will perspire less.

Using a chainsaw to cut soft wood makes the blade heat up less then using the chainsaw to cut soft wood.
This means the hard wood is more rough

A DVD is forced to slide at a lower rate of speed across a coffee table then across an entertainment center.
Which surface will let the DVD slide the greater distance? entertainment center.

Milo's blade heated up less cutting fruit then cutting steak.
He realized this meant that the blade experienced more resistance cutting steak.

The sun has more mass than Neptune so
it has stronger gravity.

The children complained of burns on their legs when sliding down an old dry plastic slide. The same children found the slide to be more fun--faster and without burns--on a rainy day.
The water on the slide most likely lowered resistance.

Barbara just finished running in a marathon as her husband Jake watched.
Which is more than likely true Jake is refreshed and not tired from watching the events.

A jackfruit experiences low friction on a red surface and high friction on a purple surface.
Which surface is smoother? red surface.

Sina and Kim work together. Sina is driving a sports car to work while Kim rides her bike to work.
After an hour, who would have gone less distance? Kim.

Jack took his dingy out into the lake and the ocean to see which was rougher. He determined that the ocean was the rougher of the two bodies of water.
His dingy was able to go a greater distance over lake.

Cordelia skateboards on a pink road on her way to the store, and can go very quickly and smoothly. On her way home from the store, she skateboards on a navy road and can only go very slowly.
The navy road is slower because it has more friction.

Jimbo knows that the surface of his coffee table isn't as rough as the surface of his floor.
When he slides his doily across both surfaces, which will force the doily to travel at a lower rate of speed? flo.

A wool cap slides slower over a carpet then over a vanity.
This means the carpet has the most friction

There is a rubber mat on the wooden floor. The rubber mat has more resistance than the floor and Anthony notices this when he tries to roll a ball across both.
This is because the wooden flo is smoother.

A cougar running through the mountains experiences less resistance then when running through the forest.
This means the cougar heats up less when in the forest.

The marble rolled with barely a touch on the polished concrete while on the rougher outdoor concrete it too a little more effort.
Was the marble faster on the polished concrete?

John smashes his ex-girlfriend's car with a rubber mallet and a Styrofoam mallet.
Which mallet is less likely to break? rubber mallet.

Kevin holds the NCAA record for the disc throw. Larry holds the middle school record for the disc throw as well.
Who's record is longer? Kevin.

Jim rolled a marble across a wooden floor. Later he was rolling the same marble across a rubber mat. He noticed the rubber mat was rougher and it made it harder to roll.
The rubber mat has more resistance.

A little boy went outside after a cold night. He slipped on some ice and slid across his driveway on his rear, luckily unhurt. He actually thought it was fun, and decided to dry this with a running start on the grouted tile of his kitchen floor, but found he did not slide more than a couple of feet.
The boy slid further on the driveway because the smooth ice has less friction.

There is more friction when a ball slides across a patch of dirt than a sheet of ice.
The ball would travel at a lower rate of speed moving on the patch of dirt.

Max rolled a ball to his dog. When he rolled it across the carpet, he had to force it. When rolling it on the wood floor, it rolled smoothly without effort.
Max was able to roll the ball farther across the wood floor.

The ball was very close to the child but the sun was far away
so the sun seemed smaller.

Don had terror in his eyes as he shouted that there was a stampede coming. They could see the dust rising in the distance, and hear a faint rumbling. As the dust increased, so did the rumbling, and soon they could see the individual cows of the herd.
It was louder when the stampede was nearer.

Brent's neighbor is riding his motorcycle in the neighborhood as Brent stands in his driveway. The motorcycle sounds extremely loud when it passes in front of Brent's house, but not nearly as loud when it's down the street.
This means that when the motorcycle is in front of Brent's house its sound would register at a higher decibel level.

War Emblem stopped from a brisk trot to greet Northern Dancer, who had been standing still and contently grazing in the pasture.
Which horse would be sweating more? War Emblem.

Mars is slightly smaller than Earth so it has less mass. therefore
it also has weaker gravity.

If a spatula
and a glass jar fall from the roof of a building the spatula will not break unlike the jar making the spatula pliable.

Tim wants to replace his bicycle's rubber tires with plastic ones. After the first trip, he notices cracks in his new tires, and it seems the whole thing could fall apart.
This is because the plastic cannot bend and yield to the ground.

The pot roast should be put on first and the biscuits last in order to make sure they are both ready to serve at the same time.
Which food items takes a while to cook? pot roast.

A speed boat and a cruise ship race to the other port out at sea.
Which boat or ship gets out in front first? Speed Boat.

Andy was getting rid of some old school notes that he no longer needed. He took a stack of papers and easily ripped it in half before chucking it into the recycling bin.
He then did the same with a second stack, but it was much more difficult to tear that stack in half. the second stack was thicker.

Jane figured out that her sand is rougher than her court when she rolled her tennis ball over the two surfaces.
She then learned that the sand has more resistance

Tom noticed when playing on his grandpa's old wooden checker board, the pieces didn't slide as quickly as on his new cheap coated cardboard set.
This is because the wooden board offered more resistance as the cardboard set?

The mega yacht sailed much smoother on the river water than the high tide ocean because
it was less smooth.

Timmy played with the yo-yo easier through windy air rather than gelatin.
because the gelatin is less smooth.

A squirrel has no problem climbing up a tree, but has a hard time climbing up the side of a house.
This is because there is more friction on the tree.

If a tire gets less hot when it goes over the road than a parking lot. it is
because the parking lot is rougher.

Kent decided to drop a lit up flashlight into a nearby well to see how deep it was.
As it got further down the well, the light got dimmer.

A man was going to test drive so me new cars and noticed that a truck was much heavier than a sports car and therefore
it was slower to accelerate.

Mike's belt seems to get much hotter when he pulls it through the loops on his jeans compared to when he pulls it through the loops on his dress pants.
This means Mike's belt experiences less resistance on his dress pants.

Amy is laden with bags full of Christmas gifts. She sees a TV on sale and tries to reach it before anyone else, but she can barely get going before Tom takes it from the shelf.
Amy was slower because she was weighed down too much.

A baseball rolls less quickly over a leg then it does over an arm.
This means the arm offers less resistance

John has a hard time driving fast in his backhoe when on a mountainside and a much easier time in a valley.
He decided that mountainside is more rough

James is rowing in the canoe. He is nearing the island.
As he gets close to the island, it appears larger.

Jimbo has more muscle then James.
Which person can throw a baseball a greater distance? Jimbo.

Timmy noticed he got a rug burn when he slid on his knees on carpet, so he started sliding on his kitchen floor instead.
This caused less burn because the waxed vinyl floor caused less friction.

A bath mat is more rugged than a throw rug.
This means a gumball rolled across the surface of the throw rug encounters less resistance

Sam and Matt were both athletes, but after a car accident Sam is much weaker than Matt.
If they were to both throw a ball, what is most likely to happen Sam will not throw the ball as far as Matt can.

The car drives fast over an orange track, but slows down on a red track.
This is because the red track has more friction.

An empty grocery bag flies through the air in the wind. The bag flies into the courtyard through an entrance. The bag barely moves any more before falling slowly to the ground.
Does the air inside have more friction?.

Sarah was playing jacks on the rug. The ball bounced away and rolled on the rug, then onto the linoleum kitchen floor nearby. The rug had more resistance than the kitchen floor.
Which surface was smoother? linoleum kitchen flo.

A salmon swimming through a river experiences low friction, while a salmon swimming through a creek experiences high friction.
Which river causes the temperature of the salmon to increase more? creek.

Martin and Jillian sit down on identical bikes next to each other and begin pedaling. Martin has his bike set at a low resistance, while Jillian sets her bike at a high resistance.
Whose shirt will begin to show sweat first? Jillian.

John ran to work on Monday and walked to work on Tuesday.
On which day did John take a longer amount of time to get to work? Tuesday.

A bird is much faster then a beetle.
If both animals make the same journey, which will arrive sooner? bird.

John swings two baseball bats at a concrete fence. One bat is made of plastic and the other is made of clay.
Which bat is more likely to break? Clay baseball bat.

Ted is playing pool in his garage. The pool ball goes off the table and slides across the cement floor. Ted notices that the pool ball moves around easier on the cement floor than on the pool table.
That is because the cement flo is smoother.

Ellie walks into her home. The television is loud in the living room. As she walks away, the noise isn't as loud.
That's because things are louder.

Billy was rolling his ball in his freshly cut grass and it would go a long way. Billy rolled the ball again and this time it entered his neighbors yard which hadn't cut their grass in a some weeks and the ball stopped almost instantly.
Billy concluded that the ball would not be as resisted if he rolled it in Freshly cut grass.

A banjo slides at a low rate of speed across a porch swing, but a high rate of speed across the porch of Mike's old house.
Which surface is going to give the banjo a rougher ride? porch swing.

Both Jimbo and James are at the gym.
If Jimbo is running on a treadmill and James is just kind of standing around, which person will sweat less? James.

Roger took a pinball machine apart. He took the pinball out and rolled it across the carpet. The pinball was not as quick on the carpet as it was in the machine.
This is because there is less friction in the pinball machine.

A plastic sheet can bend easier then a glass sheet.
If Mike bends both sheets, which is most likely to break in two? glass sheet.

Jane could see a little turtle in her neighbor's yard 4 houses away. She walked over to get a closer look.
She was surprised at how big it was when she got there.

A frisbee benefits from low friction when sliding across a frozen lake and high friction when sliding over frozen ground.
Which surface is going to make the frisbee slide at a lower rate of speed? frozen ground.

Jim is helping his boss load something into his truck. Jim jumps into his boss's truck and leaves the parking lot to head to the back of the building. He notices how easy the truck rolls on the parking lot compared to the grass field behind the building.
The truck won't go as fast in the field.

Two horses were out on a hot day in a sunny pasture that didn't have any shade for two hours. When their owner came by to take them to a shaded pasture, his white horse was covered in sweat and his bay horse was dry.
Which of the horses had been taking it easy? the bay horse.

Harry is forced to roll his gumball slower over his dirty floor, but he can roll it much faster over his rug.
This means that the dirty flo is rougher

Rolling a melon across a field creates more heat energy then rolling it across a floor.
This means the flo is smoother

Mike knows that his tank weighs more than his bicycle.
Which vehicle will speed up slower? tank.

Jim's plastic cup is more flexible than his frisbee.
If he drops both on the floor, which one is more likely to break frisbee.

Rolling a beach ball across a gym creates more heat then rolling it across a beach.
This means the beach ball experiences more resistance over the gym.

An astronomer was studying the properties of some stars. She saw that one was a neutron star that was so densely packed with material that it had a far larger mass than an ordinary star that she was also observing.
Which of these stars would she expect to have a greater gravitational force? neutron star.

Jim noticed that his quarter would roll further over cardboard than over felt. since cardboard is much smoother
The cardboard has less resistance

The construction worker moved the wheelbarrow swiftly over the so il and got hung up on the rocks
The rocks are less smooth.

If Jimbo is sitting closer to a dog then to a rooster. which animal will seem bigger to him
dog.

Juan is a big man with thick arms while his son is a small child with skinny arms. Juan challenged his son to toss a baseball as far as he could. Juan then also tossed a baseball as far as he could.
Which person likely threw the ball the furthest Juan.

Lisa went to the gym on monday to exercise. She works out really hard that day and sweats a lot. On Friday she didn't feel like working out much so she just walked around the tracks and barely breaks a sweat.
As a result Lisa sweats more when she exercises more on monday.

Jimmy was playing with his pet cat Brutus. He noticed whenever he threw Brutus' cat toy on the shag rug it roll that fast, however when Jimmy tossed the cat toy on the marble counter is moved at a pace that Brutus the cat needed to catch up.
Jimmy realized that the marble counter top has less resistance.

Tim found that his glazed tile was smooth and that his paper mache was rough when he rolled a toothpick over each surface.
This means that his glazed tile has less friction

Kathy is with her mother in a toy store, when a particular stuffed animal caught her eye from across the store. She decided to get closer to it.
Compared to when she first saw it, will the stuffed animal now look larger.

Mary can roll her penny at a greater rate of speed over some cut grass then over some long grass.
This means she can also roll the penny a greater distance over the cut grass.

Jack is playing crochet. He hits the ball across the grass and later hits it across the cement walkway. The cement is smoother and he is impressed with how the ball moves over it.
The ball moves faster over the cement.

Mike knows his counter has more resistance then his plate.
This means his lemon will roll quicker on his plate.

Kyle is staying in his cabin located out in the country. He goes for a long walk until past dark and decides to turn back to the cabin. The porch light from the cabin looks very faint as he begins traversing the massive pasture adjacent to the cabin. Kyle is more and more relieved as the porch light begins to seem brighter.
This is because the porch light seems much more faint when Kyle is a large distance from it.

Rick the 7 year old was playing with his little 2 year old brother but
because he was stronger he could throw the ball further.

Naomi heard two cats meowing. One was closer to her and the other was farther away.
Which cat sounded louder? closer cat.

If Milo is stronger then Harry. which per so n can throw a ball farther
Milo.

John has recently had surgery, and has to stay off his feet for three weeks. As a result, he'll be exercising less.
Is he more likely during those three weeks to sweat less.

In January, Deann takes a job throwing t-shirts to fans in the crowds at local basketball games. She notices that her arm increases in power over time due to the throwing.
In March, finds that she can throw t-shirts higher into the crowd than she could in January.

Rolling a baseball on a paved road creates a lot more heat then rolling it on an icy floor.
The baseball will move slower on pavement.

Justine raises pigeons. She releases two of them from a cage at the same time, to have them race. The white pigeon is faster than the grey pigeon.
Which pigeon goes a greater distance? white pigeon.

Scientists were excited to discover two new stars, one with very little gravity (it was called Pulsar) and the other with a tremendous amount (it was called Oberon).
Based on its gravitational properties, the scientists knew that Oberon was the star with greater mass.

Mary knows that her magazine is more flexible then her board.
Which item is most likely to break when she bends it? board.

Both Tipper and Larry work in construction. Tipper works on the site while Larry works in the office.
Who will sweat less over the course of a day? Larry.

Pulling a rope through adult hands offers high resistance, while pulling it through child hands offers low resistance.
The rope will travel slower through the adult hands.

When Nick put the chicken thighs into the freezer bag, he could bend them almost in half and they bounced back into position. When he pulled them out and tried bending one, it broke. Why?
a fresh chicken thigh is more flexible.

Two teams play tug of war against each other with two different ropes. It's clear that the green rope is much larger around the orange rope.
Which rope will be less likely to be torn from the force of the teams pulling on it? green rope.

An internet server for a popular game is in Georgia. People in Florida get less ping playing the game than in Europe using the same server. Why?
Florida is closer so data has less to travel.

Sammie was playing with her top one day and noticed that it spun faster on a mirror then on a piece of cardboard.
The cardboard heated up more from the friction of the top

Mike's car doesn't weigh as much as his truck.
This means that the truck will accelerate slower

Milo is running away from Marcus.
Marcus is trying to keep up, but as Milo gains ground, Marcus has a hard time of keeping track of him since Milo looks tiny.

The professional baseball player was stronger than the child
so they could throw the ball further.

Suppose a tire and a glass vase is thrown off the top of a building.
Which is more likely to break? Glass Vase.

A bus and a bicycle are both going the same direction. The bus is going 40mph faster than the bicycle.
Will the bicycle in one hour cover less distance.

Jim and Ben both had old cars that they loved to take out for drives on Sundays. Ben's car had a small motor and so it wasn't as fast as Jim's car.
Assuming they didn't have to worry about speed limits or other traffic, which of their cars could travel for 50 miles in the least amount of minutes? Ben's car.

A crab scuttling along wet sand creates more heat then one scuttling along dry sand.
This means the dry sand offers less resistance to the crab's claws

Two chimps in a zoo always like to throw apples into the neighboring zebra enclosure.
Zippy always seems to throw the apples further than Toby. Which chimp is weaker? Toby.

A farmer needs to take his tractor to the farm. He drives his tractor on the road and notices it's a lot easier to drive on the road than through the field.
This is because the road is smoother.

Shiloh is riding his bike. Shiloh rides his bike on the street, and then he rides it in the woods. Shiloh can tell that his bike goes faster when he is riding on the street.
This is because there is less friction riding on the street.

Tom takes a piece of uncooked pasta and a piece of cooked pasta and attempts to break each of them between his hands.
Which piece of pasta is more likely to break? Uncooked pasta.

Sliding a mattress across a showroom floor heats the mattress up less then sliding it across a bedroom floor.
Which surface will the mattress move faster across showroom flo.

Dean is biking to work on Wednesdays, but drives to work on other days of the week.
Dean will spend less time sweating on other weekdays.

An ice cube sliding across a fridge shelf experiences more resistance then one sliding across a freezer shelf.
Which shelf will let the ice cube go faster? freezer shelf.

Timmy found it much easier to push his toy truck on the hardwood floor than on the carpet.
This was because the hardwood floor has less friction.

Sara rubbed her cloth over her monitor and her tv. The surface of the monitor was smooth while the surface of the tv was rough.
This means that the monit had less friction

After repeatedly slipping on the steps in his home, Charlie applied a rubber mat to each stair step.
This made them safer by providing more resistance.

The Stoney brick flew quickly across the ice but could barely move on the rocky road because
it has more resistance.

Mac and Barry throw a ball at the same time in the same direction. Mac is an adult, and Barry is a toddler.
The ball that goes the greatest distance is the one thrown by Mac.

A capybara can move a greater distance in water then on land.
Which surface is providing the smoother journey for the capybara? water.

The sun has less mass than the average black hole so
it has weaker gravity.

Lane is testing how strong gravity pulls on different objects. She drops a brick and a penny from a roof at the same time.
Which has larger mass and hits the ground first? brick.

Alison enjoyed playing hockey with her schoolmates. She loved the way the puck slid swiftly across the ice surface. She took the puck home and tried sliding it across her bedroom carpet. She saw that the puck slid a considerable distance greater on the ice than on her bedroom carpet.
This is because the ice has less resistance.

Leather is easier to flex then wood.
This means that wood can be broken easier.

The baby kept throwing his rattle from the crib. He soon learned that the rattle moved further away on the wood than the carpet.
This is because the wood was smoother.

A tear rolling down a cheek heats up less then one rolling down a chin.
This means the tear rolls quicker over the cheek.

A turtle and a cheetah both sprint for 30 seconds to catch it's food.
Which animal traveled the least to catch it's food? Turtle.

Davy's baby girl was crawling on the Living Room floor. Suddenly, his small Dalmation puppy raced by her, running into the Dining Room, into the Kitchen, and all the way back before his daughter had even reached the couch.
Who was moving more slowly? the baby.

If an airplane and a car leave from the same place and travel for two hours. which will cover more distance
Airplane.

A picture frame sliding across a dresser makes it heat up less then one sliding across a floor.
Which surface will the picture frame move the slowest on? flo.

Ted was skiing. He went pretty fast on the snow. He accidentally went off the path and onto the grass. He slowed down a lot on the grass.
This is because the grass has more friction.

Mikes golf ball dribbled off the fairway grass and rolled the length of the green picking up speed.
This shows the putting green had less friction than the fairway grass.

The roller coaster rode quicker on the railcar.
because the plastic bars are less smooth.

Thelma had two chocolate bars. One had been in the freezer, the other in the warm sun. She saw that the one in the freezer couldn't be bent as easily as the warm one.
Which was more likely to break? cold chocolate.

John throws a rubber ball and a glass ball against a brick wall.
Which ball is least likely to break? Rubber ball.

A glove sliding across a card table experiences a lower increase in temperature then one sliding across a coffee table.
Which table has a surface that is less bumpy? card table.

Mike's metal bar is much thicker then his paper sheet.
Which item would resist for longer if he tried to break it? metal bar.

Jim was playing with his sled one winter day when he learned that snow is a lot more rough compared to ice.
This means that his sled moves quicker over ice.

Mike rolled his smooth stone across some dirt and noticed it did not get as hot as when he rolled it across some brush.
He then surmised that the brush was rougher

Cindy was walking in the park when she saw a friend walking her poodle and, at the same time, saw another friend walking his Great Dane. Cindy laughed because, from her perspective, the poodle seemed to be dwarfing the Great Dane in terms of size.
Which dog was further away from Cindy? The Great Dane.

Mike is helping his dad in the garden. He notices that the wheelbarrow is easier to push on the smoother cement path than in the field.
Mike is able to push the wheelbarrow faster on the cement path.

When so meone was pulling on the glass rod it was less flexible than the elastic b and so
it was more breakable.

Jimbo and Fred were working out together.
Jimbo was running the treadmill, but Fred was sitting on a chair. Which person sweated more? Jimbo.

A girl rubs her wool sock covered feet rapidly on Timmy's arm, he soon gets upset and says his arm is burning. Later she tries with some tights, and it doesn't really bother him.
This shows that the wool socks rougher than the tights.

Karen pushed a tack into both drywall and wood. She learned that drywall is smooth and wood is rough.
This means that drywall has less resistance

A man kicks a soccer ball and a cheetah pounces and starts chasing it, easily catching it.
That's because the cheetah is faster than the soccer ball.

Tandy learned that a gym floor is not as rough as a kitchen floor when he rolled a tape ball across them.
The tape ball moved faster over the gym flo.

Jim and Tom are both at the gym. Jim is on the elliptical while Tom is filling out paperwork.
Who is most likely sweating less Tom.

The white cat was running around in the house. When she jumped on the table she knocked over to cups.
Which cup is more likely not to break plastic cup.

A bucket sliding across wet sand stays cooler then one sliding across dry sand.
Which surface is providing less resistance to the bucket? wet sand.

Milo's toy marble experimentation has given him the knowledge that a laminate counter offers less friction than a piece of paper. He learned this while rolling the marble over different surfaces.
This newfound information has led him to believe that the marble will roll slower over the piece of paper.

Tim was playing around by rolling his thimble over different surfaces. He noticed that brick seemed to be rougher than glass.
Rolling his thimble across glass generates less friction

The nerd was very small
and meek compared to the athlete who could throw a baseball further distances.

Heather wants to see if a bar stool will slide faster along the bar surface which has decorative raised bumps on it or on the smooth wooden floor.
On which surface will the chair slide faster floor?.

Steve really liked his new apartment, but he was dismayed to discover he could easily hear his neighbors' noise.
He realized that because the building was newer and more cheaply constructed than his old place, the weak walls were thinner.

A per so n doing jumping jacks will likely be sweatier than a per
so n sitting around

Barry shot a golf ball straight up into the air with a slingshot.
The ball appeared smaller when it was high in the sky.

A man is giving his daughter a piggyback ride in their back yard. Some time passes, and she goes inside to watch a movie.
Without her on his back, is he more likely to be able to speed up fast.

John and Sue leave work at the same time. They both get on the same train to go home.
If John gets home earlier than Sue, who traveled less distance? John.

Apple. in a never ending quest to make things thinner has released a new iPhone that is thinner than the last but unfortunately they have made
it weaker.

Mike threw his coin onto both a counter and a table. He noticed the coin had less resistance sliding over the table then over the counter.
This made him realize that the counter would create more heat as the coin slid over it

There's a path near Paul's house that he enjoys going to. One day Paul ran the length of the path. The next day he pushed a baby stroller along the length of the path.
In which situation would more time have elapsed in traveling the length of the path Paul pushing a baby stroller the length of the path.

Lorelai is riding her bicycle in the park. She bikes very slowly down the dirt road, then picks up speed on the paved road.
She could ride faster on the paved road because there was less resistance.

Lynn noticed that her running shoes allowed her to run faster on a dry track as opposed to a sandy track.
She is faster because the dry track has more friction.

Matt makes a pot of coffee for the office. When it's brewed up, the coffee looks thicker than normal.
The coffee will probably be stronger than usual.

A pencil generates more heat when drawing over a rough piece of paper surface than on smooth notebook paper.
This is because the rough surface has more resistance.

A boy liked to hold himself up between two walls using bare feet and hands. One day his brother had wiped greasy has all over the wall.
The boy kept sliding down, while normally he did not, because the greasy wall had less friction.

Each planet has a substantial gravitational pull. Uranus bigger than earth but still much smaller than the sun.
Which object has a weaker gravitational pull? Uranus.

Ross was playing with his toy train. He decided to try it out on the new track he bought and he noticed that the train moved easier on the new track.
That is because the surface was rougher on the old track.

Jack and sue were paddling in a canoe in a swamp in Mississippi. They heard a distinctive bird calling, then a few minutes later they heard it again and it sounded louder.
They were closer to the bird than earlier.

Jake was skateboarding in the neighborhood one day and noticed he was moving a lot faster over the concrete then he was moving on the loose gravel which seemed make his wheels hotter.
The reason for this is because the surface with more friction is gravel.

Darlene takes her scooter outside to ride it in the snow. The snowy driveway makes it really hard for her to ride it at all, so she rides it on her linoleum floor at home.
Darlene can ride the scooter better on the linoleum because it has less friction.

Jimmy found that when he rode his trike on the driveway it felt smoother than when he rode it on the road.
He figured that the driveway generated less heat while riding over it

Cotton cloth flexes easier then a tooth pick.
Which item is less likely to break when flexed? cotton cloth.

Teenage Mary and her grandmother, Millie, are both gymnasts. Both are talented athletes, even though Millie is getting a little stiff in her later years.
Between senior Millie and young Mary, which one is more at risk for broken bones? Millie is more at risk.

Dane drops a candle outdoors. The candle rolls four feet forward on the sand, but only rolls one foot on the rocks.
The rocks have more resistance.

Julie had just gotten a new sports car and while driving alone noticed how quickly it sped up when she stepped on the gas. Later, a couple of her friends got in and she noticed that it didn't sped up quite as quickly when she gave it gas.
This is because when Julie's friends were in the car it weighed more than when it was just Julie inside.

Yurianna and Darnell go to the local track for some exercise. Darnell spends his time walking around the track while Yurianna spends her time running around the track.
As a result, which person will have more sweat on their skin? Yurianna.

Laurie is playing with her kitten and rolls a cat toy on the carpet for the kitten. The kitten bats the cat toy and it moves slowly across the carpet.
The toy moves much faster on the linoleum floor because it has less resistance.

Daniel drops his water bottle outside in the dirt, and it hardly rolls at all, but when he drops it on the tile floor in his kitchen at home, it rolls across the room.
The water bottle rolled further in the kitchen because the tile had less friction.

Stacey and Marilyn are driving down the interstate at night and need to gas up their car. They sight a gas station sign that looks very dim and becomes more easily visible as they drive.
When does the sign look more luminous? when it's nearby.

A swimmer moves much quicker across a lake than wet mud
because lake is smoother.

Lyle rolls his tennis ball down the gravel driveway. The ball speeds up when it rolls over an icy patch.
The ball went faster over the icy patch because the patch had less friction.

Milton rolls his pencil across a textbook and finds that is moves faster there than it does when he rolls it across a towel.
This is because there is more resistance on the towel.

Tim's coach is forced to move a lot more slowly through the city than through the park.
This means that he can journey a greater distance through the park.

Lisa is riding her bike while Peter is walking the same way.
After 30 minutes who would have gone the furthest? Lisa.

Tim has to push an ice sculpture across the ballroom in order to get his restaurant ready for a wedding. He notices that it is easier to push the sculpture when he moves it across the polished ballroom floor than when he moves it across the rough cobblestone floor.
If Tim is trying to keep the ice sculpture from melting, which surface should he push it across in order to produce less heat? ballroom flo.

Bob took his toy car outside to play with it. He rolled it on the street and then he rolled it in the grass. He noted that the toy car rolled much faster in the street.
Which surface caused more friction? The grass.

A lime seed rolling around on a plate has an easy time, but a lime seed rolling around in a cup has a hard time.
This means the lime seed can roll a greater distance on the plate or in the.

Connie was skating on the wooden floor at the skating rink.
The wooden floor was smooth and she flew! The grass outside was not and when she left and tried to skate there, she moved slower.

Jason needs to light a fire by rubbing sticks against a log on the ground. The first stick is made of oak and is very smooth, while the second stick is pine and has lots of bumps and grooves.
The stick that will generate less heat when Jason uses it to start a fire is oak stick.

Jim is much stronger physically than his good friend Lou, but they enjoy a good natured competitive friendship nonetheless.
When Lou challenges Jim to a discus challenge, which of the two men will achieve a throw of greater distance? Jim will achieve greater distance.

Jimmy dropped a bowling ball and a balloon off the roof.
The bowling ball landed first because it has more mass and therefore stronger gravity.

A contractor is knocking down walls in adjacent rooms, one with a blue wall and one with an orange wall. Each wall is made of the same material. The contractor notes that the orange wall is very flimsy, while the blue wall is much thicker.
This means that the orange wall will be easier to knock down.

Bill drops an iron ball and soccer ball off a cliff.
The Iron ball falls faster because it is heavier.

The dwarf planet Pluto has less mass than the Sun meaning
it has weaker gravity.

A horseshoe thrown onto a cement slab slides at a greater rate of speed then one thrown onto a sand pit.
This means the cement slab has less resistance

A worm and a snake both take a journey around the giant tree. The worm is much slower than the snake so it paces itself.
Which animal takes more time to get around the tree? Worm.

A father and son are playing catch. Since the son is a toddler, the father is teaching him how to throw.
The ball goes a greater distance when it is thrown by the father.

Troy was driving his truck in the grass near his home. He accidentally went into the mud. His tires heated up more when he was in the mud.
This is because the mud is rougher.

Several athletes are competing in a throwing contest.
Which type athlete, due to upper body strength is likely to throw further? Bodybuilder.

A tree often looks bigger than the moon
because the tree is nearer.

Tom has recently gotten a prosthetic arm and he notices that it is somewhat stronger than his human arm. Tom tosses a tennis ball to his friend, first with the human arm then with the prosthetic arm.
Which arm will toss the ball a shorter distance? Tom's human arm.

Jane is a distance away from Brad.
so they each look smaller to each other.

Swinging a tennis racket through steam creates less friction than swinging it through water.
This means that the tennis racket can move faster through steam.

Daryl is rolling a stone down two hills. The first hill is muddy, so the stone moves slowly.
The stone moves faster down the grassy hill because there is less resistance.

The Monkeys jump faster through the treetops than on the jungle floor because it has less resistance
and obstacles.

A post office counter is less bumpy then a coffee table.
Which surface will force a letter to move at a lower rate of speed when slid across it? coffee table.

Two asteroids were heading straight for the moon. Asteroid #1 got sucked to the moon's surface before the asteroid #2.
That's because the mass was greater in Asteroid #1.

A boat encounters less resistance moving through a pond then through a slough.
This means the boat is forced to cruise at a lower rate of speed through the slough.

Everyone knows that dry pasta isn't as flexible as wet pasta.
If Jimbo bends both types of pasta, which is more likely to snap into two pieces? dry pasta.

A yarn ball gets less hot rolling over a rug then a carpet.
This means the rug is more smooth

Timmy found that his paper airplane reached a higher rate of speed when he threw it through clear air than when he threw it through fog.
This means that the clear air has less friction

After several runs down the hill on a snowboard, Dad decided that it was safe enough for his six year old Timmy. Timmy, however, did't stop where his dad did, he reached the bottom well before, and then continued past the tree line, where luckily he was stopped by a small hill, avoiding many trees.
this is because Timmy was lighter than his dad?.

Mike's truck is slower then his van.
If he drove both of them for 5 minutes, which would have gone the smaller distance? truck.

When Bob was holding the candle near to him he found it to be brighter than when he placed
it on the shelf far away

Jane bounces a green ball around. When she bounces the green ball on the concrete floor, the ball bounces very high. When Jane bounces the green ball on the dirt driveway, the ball doesn't bounce very high.
The ball bounced higher on the concrete floor because it has less friction.

When looking up at the sky John noticed that the sun was very bright compared to a star
and figured that the star was farther away.

Daniel and Nate compete in a boxing match. Daniel is very old thin and weak while Nate is big and strong.
Who loses the boxing match? Daniel.

Bill is driving his tractor through the field. He gets onto the road to get back from his farm to his home. He is able to drive much faster on the road than in the field.
The tires of the tractor will heat up more when Bill is driving on the field.

A raisin rolling across a paper creates less of a temperature increase then one rolling across a cloth.
This means the cloth has more friction

An elephant can't run as fast as a lion.
If both animals run on the open plain for the same amount of time, which will have went the shorter distance? elephant.

Minnie can choose between two trains for her travel. The red train and the blue train both go the same speed, but the red train travels for less time than the blue train.
Which train travels less distance? red train.

Suppose you see an Elephant at the zoo and look up into the night sky right after.
Which object looks bigger? Elephant.

If you were to tug on a rubber b and it would likely stretch. but if you tugged on a pencil you'd likely break it because
it is less flexible.

A television station launched a satellite to use to broadcast. It stays in the air by perpetually being pulled towards the Earth.
Which has more gravity: the Earth has stronger gravity.

Tina plays with two different toys. Gumby which is made of flexible clay and her Barbie doll which is made of wood.
If she bends each toy which one will bend and not break? Gumby.

A seed rolling over sagebrush has more friction then rolling over rubble.
This means the sagebrush is more rough

Ben is hoping to get to work by eight in the morning, but the route the bus is on today will only let them travel at lower speeds.
The time it takes Ben to get to work today is greater.

The rough texture of an orange rind resisted the butter knife, compared to using it to cut a pat of butter.
This means the knife would travel further faster while cutting the butter.

Astronauts exploring the galaxy first land on a red planet and later land on a green planet. The red planet is larger in mass than the green planet.
On which of these planets will the astronauts feel a lower gravitational force? the green planet.

Driving a truck on an icy road generates less friction than driving a truck on a muddy road.
The truck can travel further over icy road.

From far away, Jane saw an angry white speck on a red bump on her son's neck. When she got closer, she saw the puss oozing from an engorged volcano of skin. When did the pimple look bigger?
when the pimple was up close.

The enormous tractor trailer belched smoke as it waited at the stoplight next to a sleek, low, and light Italian model sports car.
When the stoplight finally turned green, which vehicle would likely take off more speedily? The sports car would.

Your house is pretty large. But the moon is larger.
Which object has lesser gravity? House.

A car driving over a smooth road will move faster than when
it moves over bumpy gravel.

A car is driving on a blue road and the car stays cool. The same car drives on a green road and gets very warm.
This is because the blue road has less resistance.

Ana was eating cereal while watching television. She emptied the bowl and asked her friend to put it in the sink for her. She pushed the bowl across the carpet towards her friend first, but noticed it moved slowly, then she pushed it across a hardwood table and saw that it moved much faster.
The hardwood table had less resistance.

Pushing a push pin into drywall encounters low friction, but pushing it into hardboard encounters high friction.
This means the drywall is more smooth

The guy kayaked quickly through the river water. but bumpily through the icy lake water
because the icy water had more resistance.

Dawson pushes his lawn mower across the asphalt drive to the grass, he notices it's easier to push the mower on the asphalt.
This is because the asphalt has less resistance.

Judith and Cassie decide to go on a walk together and talk about what's going on in their lives. They start at Judith's house and plan to go around the block and back.
Cassie decides to stop at her friend's house for the rest of the day while Judith finishes the walk. Who walked more? Judith.

By the end of the day one I had traveled 450 miles going 60 mph, on the second day I had traveled 900 miles.
If I would have stopped on day one I would not have gotten as far as I did true.

Jack and Jill are trying to run a marathon. Five minutes in, Jack has had enough and decides to walk of rest of the way while Jill manages to run to the finish line.
At the end, Jack was feeling fresh.

A kid wanted to know how to see if his teddy bear or gameboy had the stronger gravity.
He was told by his dad to drop them both from the porch, and whichever hit the ground first has the most mass and gravity.

Peter Clark uses crayons on line paper instead of construction paper for a smoother picture.
This is because the line paper is more smooth.

Enrique was rolling dough and noticed the wet dough was harder to roll than the dryer dough.
This was because the dryer dough was smoother.

Polyethylene is more flexible then pvc.
Which plastic is the more breakable of the two? pvc.

Physicists launched two steel balls down two tracks at the same time. One track was a flat wooden surface at a 45 degree angle. The other track was a wooden track covered in sandpaper and was also placed at a 45 degree angle.
They expect to record that the slower of the two tracks was The sandpaper track.

Jimmy gets mad and throws his laptop against the wall. He takes his shirt off and throws that against the wall as well.
Which object is more likely to break due to inflexibility? Laptop.

The chicken roamed much more freely on the dry dirt than on the mulch because
it had less resistance.

Rolling a red ball across an orange carpet makes the ball get hotter then rolling it across a blue carpet.
Which carpet is the most smooth? blue carpet.

At a karate tournament there are paper and wood boards.
Which would be easier to break? Paper.

Mike rolled his tomato over a cutting board and over a counter. He noticed the temperature of the tomato rose more when he rolled it over the cutting board.
Which surface has more resistance? cutting board.

James rolled his golf ball over a couple different surfaces and noticed that rolling the golf ball over frozen water seemed to generate less resistance than rolling it over shag carpet.
Rolling the golf ball over frozen water generated less heat

A person sees a car from far down the road, and then the car approaches.
Though the car is large up close, from far away, it is tinier.

James was playing with a remote control car. He noticed it would go much faster on the road than on the grass.
That's because the grass has higher friction.

Timmy the seal knows that he can swim a greater distance in the bay compared to the ocean.
This means that the ocean is rougher

The car on the street was farther from the house than the car nearby so
it sounded quieter.

Tom is dragging a wheeled backpack to class. He notices that there is more resistance when he pulls it over the dirt than when he pulls it over the sidewalk.
There is more heat coming from the backpack's tires when Tom pulls it over the dirt.

Joe worked at a bar. The bar had a glass counter on one side and a wooden counter on the other. When Joe slid a glass along the glass counter, he noticed it slid farther than it did on the wood counter.
This is because the glass counter is smoother.

A mouse has an easy time walking across plywood, but a hard time walking across an oak board.
The mouse's feet will stay cooler walking across the plywood.

Everyone at school thought Carlos would be excellent at the shotput, but no one had any confidence in Marlon doing well at it.
Which of the two is likely to be a physically weaker person, Carlos.

The piece of wood was more flexible than the glass lightbulb but
it was less breakable.

Connor is talking to his friends in his back yard. Friend A is sitting 4 feet away from him, while friend B is 12 feet away in the pool.
Who can Connor hear better? friend A.

A jaguar runs much faster then a hyena.
If both are chasing something on the open plain for 10 minutes, which will cover the least amount of distance? hyena.

Yolanda was driving, and she turned onto a road that ran alongside some railroad tracks. A train was moving down the tracks, going in the same direction that she was. A few minutes later, the train had passed by her and she could only see the back of the train.
Which vehicle had a greater rate of speed? the train.

A scooter gets hotter when running on a alley then on a highway.
This means the scooter can travel a greater distance on the highway.

A soccer ball rolls faster across the wooden gym floor than the grass field.
This shows that the grass has higher resistance.

A storm blows into the area and a thick oak and a small sapling are in its path. The sapling is tiny in diameter compared to the thick oak.
This means that the storm winds will break the small sapling.

A worker moves a push broom across a green floor, then across an orange floor.
He sees that the broom moves more slowly across the orange floor than it does across the green floor, which he uses to conclude that there is less resistance on the green flo.

There is a mountain in the distance, behind a hill.
Which one is darker, the mountain or the.

Ron and Lon were identical twins, Ron worked out regularly and Lon just played video games all day.
Therefore; Lon is not as fast and can't throw a ball as far

Savannah is playing with a marble at the dinner table. She rolls the marble on the table and watches it slow down when it rolls over her fabric placemat.
The marble slowed down on the placemat because the placemat had more friction than the table.

Chris is playing with a ping pong ball on the porch. The ball slips out of his hand and slowly rolls across the muddy lawn onto the wet sidewalk, where it speeds up.
The ball sped up on the wet sidewalk because the sidewalk had lower resistance.

A drag car can drive quicker on a new track then on an old track.
This means the car experiences less friction on the new track.

The plastic bumper was more flexible than the windshield so
it was less breakable.

A napkin is less rough than a towel.
This means that rolling a rock over the napkin in less resistance

Milo can slide his bandana across a cork table and watch it move a bit, but when he slides it across a walnut table it goes pretty far.
This means the walnut table creates less friction

Tina noticed that rolling her tennis ball across the rug seemed to be rougher than rolling the ball across the wood floor.
The tennis ball rolled further over wood flo.

Milo and Mona have determined that Milo is the stronger of the two people.
When throwing a paper airplane, which can toss it the greater distance? Milo.

Walter is out skateboarding. He notices he can go at a higher speed in the parking lot than he can on the sidewalk.
When Walter skates on the parking lot. his skateboard will heat up less.

School bus A and School bus B are the same kind of bus. School bus A has 25 children on it and School bus B has 55 children.
School bus B takes longer to accelerate because it is heavier.

If you are looking at the St.
Louis arch from the base of it, and you got a good look at it when you were driving in, which one would appear smaller to you? Arch from distance.

A cat experiences less friction running over a couch then over a chair.
This means the cat will get hotter running over the chair.

When the ballon with no weight was released
it accelerated faster than the balloon with a weight attached to it

Ernest is pushing a cart to his garden. There is an area of rocky dirt that is hard to pass through, but a cement path goes most of the way there.
Ernest moves faster pushing the cart over the cement path.

Tyron decided to bake some cookies. He made a sheet of dough and rolled his rolling pin across it. He stopped for a minute and rolled the rolling pin across the wooden cutting board on the counter. The rolling pin moved more easily on the cutting board than on the sheet of dough.
Tyron noted that the cause of this was that there was less friction on the wooden cutting board.

The Moon has less mass then the Earth.
Which body emits a weaker gravitational field? Moon.

